Virus Name:  Casper 
 Aliases:     Chameleon 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovery:   August, 1990 
 Symptoms:    .COM file growth; April 1st disk corruption (see below) 
 Origin: 
 Eff Length:  1,200 bytes 
 Type Code:   PNCK - Parasitic Non-Resident Encrypting .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, NAV, AVTK, F-Prot, Sweep, 
                    IBMAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, LProt, Innoc, AVTK/N, IBMAV/N, 
                    NAV/N, NProt 
 Removal Instructions:  NAV, or delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Casper virus was isolated in August, 1990 by Fridrik Skulason of 
       Iceland.  The origin of this virus is unknown at this time.  Casper 
       is a non-resident generic infector of .COM files, including 
       COMMAND.COM. 
 
       When a program infected with the Casper virus is executed, the virus 
       will attempt to infect one .COM program located in the current drive 
       and directory.  Infected files will increase in length by 1,200 
       bytes, with the virus's code being located at the end of the .COM 
       file. 
 
       The Casper virus contains the following message, though this message 
       cannot be seen in infected programs as Casper uses a complex self- 
       encryption mechanism: 
 
             "Hi! I'm Casper The Virus, And On April 1st I'm Gonna 
              Fuck Up Your Hard Disk REAL BAD! In Fact It Might Just 
              Be Impossible To Recover! How's That Grab Ya! " 
 
       On April 1st, when an infected program is executed, this virus will 
       overwrite the first track of the drive where the infected program 
       was executed from.  Later attempts to access the drive will result 
       in "Sector not found" errors occurring. 
 
       The Casper virus is based on the Vienna virus.  Unlike Vienna, it is 
       self-encrypting.  The self-encryption mechanism employed is similar 
       to the encryption mechanism used in the V2P6 virus, and requires an 
       algorithmic approach in order to identify it as there are not any 
       identifying strings located in the encrypted virus. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Casper are: 
       Casper Dropper: Casper Dropper is the original, unencrypted copy 
                       of the Casper virus.  Executing this program will 
                       result in an infection of a .COM program in the 
                       current directory with the Casper virus.  The 
                       replicated program will be encrypted.  The text 
                       strings indicated above for Casper appear in this 
                       program. 
 
       See:   1260   V2P2   V2P6 