Virus Name:  Cheeba 
 Aliases:    
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovery:   December, 1991 
 Symptoms:    .COM & .EXE growth; decrease in total system & available free 
              memory 
 Origin:      Unknown 
 Eff Length:  1,683 - 1,698 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRsAK - Parasitic Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, AVTK, F-Prot, Sweep, IBMAV, ChAV, 
                    NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, 
                    Sweep/N, NShld, Innoc, AVTK/N, IBMAV/N, NAV/N, LProt 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Cheeba virus was received in December, 1991.  Its origin or 
       point of original isolation is unknown.  At the time it was 
       submitted, there were two Cheeba viruses.  The virus is a memory 
       resident infector of .COM programs, including COMMAND.COM, and 
       is described below.  The second, Cheeba-B, is a memory resident 
       infector of .COM and .EXE programs, including COMMAND.COM, and 
       is listed under "Known variant(s)" below. 
 
       The first time a program infected with the Cheeba virus is 
       executed, it will install itself memory resident at the top of 
       system memory but below the 640K DOS boundary.  Total system and 
       available free memory, as indicated by the DOS CHKDSK program, 
       will have decreased by 3,392 bytes.  Interrupt 12's return will 
       not have been moved.  Interrupt 22 will be hooked by the Cheeba 
       virus in memory. 
 
       Once Cheeba is memory resident, it will infect the target file 
       when .COM programs, including COMMAND.COM, are copied.  It does 
       not infect on file execution or opened.  The source file of the 
       copy operation will not be infected. 
 
       Programs infected with Cheeba will have a file length increase of 
       1,683 to 1,698 bytes with the virus being located at the end of 
       the infected file.  The file's date and time in the DOS disk 
       directory listing will not have been altered.  There are no visible 
       text strings within the Cheeba viral code in infected files. 
 
       It is unknown if Cheeba does anything besides replicate.  It uses 
       a complex encryption mechanism. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Cheeba are: 
       Cheeba-B: Very similar to the original Cheeba virus, the 
                 major difference with Cheeba-B is that it will also 
                 infect .EXE programs when they are copied.  Like Cheeba, 
                 only the target file is infected, the source file for 
                 the copy operation will not become infected. 
                 Origin:  Unknown  December, 1991. 
       Cheeba-1691: Functionally equivalent to the Cheeba-B listed 
                 above, this variant's main difference is that it adds 
                 1,691 - 1,706 bytes to the .COM & .EXE programs it 
                 infects. 
                 Origin:  Unknown  March, 1992. 
       Cheeba-1691B: Functionally similar to Cheeba-1691, this 
                 variant also adds 1,691 - 1,706 bytes to the .COM & .EXE 
                 programs it infects.  There are some minor code changes. 
                 Origin:  Unknown  March, 1992. 
 
       See:   Chemmy 