Virus Name:  Datacrime 
 Aliases:    
 V Status:    Extinct 
 Discovery:   April, 1989 
 Symptoms:    .COM file growth; floppy disk access; formats hard disk; 
              message any day from Oct 13th to Dec 31st 
 Origin:      Netherlands 
 Eff Length:  1,168 bytes 
 Type Code:   PNC - Parasitic Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, AVTK, NAV, Sweep, 
                    IBMAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  F-Prot, NAV, or delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Datacrime virus is a parasitic virus, and is also known as the 
       1168 virus.  The Datacrime virus is a non-resident virus, infecting 
       .COM files.  The virus was originally discovered in Europe shortly 
       after its release in March, 1989. 
 
       The virus will attach itself to the end of a .COM file, increasing 
       the file's length by 1168 bytes.  The first 5 bytes of the host 
       program are stored off in the virus's code and then replaced by a 
       branch instruction so that the virus code will be executed before 
       the host program.  In order to propagate, the virus searches through 
       directories for .COM files, other than COMMAND.COM and attaches to 
       any found .COM files (except for where the 7th letter is a D).  Hard 
       drive partitions are searched before the floppy drives are checked. 
       The virus will continue to propagate until the date is after October 
       12th of any year, then when an infected program is executed it will 
       display a message.  The decrypted message is something like: 
 
                 "DATACRIME VIRUS" 
                 "RELEASED: 1 MARCH 1989" 
 
       Note: only this ASCII message is encrypted in this version. 
 
       A low-level format of the hard disk is then done. 
 
       Errors in the code will make .COM file infection appear random and 
       will often make the system crash following infection. 
 
       Unlike the other variants of Datacrime, the original Datacrime virus 
       does not replicate, or infect files, until after April 1st of any 
       year. 
 
       Lastly, if the computer system is using an RLL, SCSI, or PC/AT type 
       hard disk controller, all variants of the Datacrime virus are not 
       able to successfully format the hard disk, according to Jan Terpstra 
       of the Netherlands. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Datacrime are: 
       Datacrime-B: The Datacrime-B virus is a variant of the 
                    Datacrime virus described above.  The differences are 
                    that the effective length of the virus is 1,280 bytes, 
                    and instead of infecting .COM files, .EXE files are 
                    infected. 
                    Origin:  The Netherlands  April, 1989. 
       Datacrime II: The Datacrime II is a variant of the Datacrime 
                    virus described above.  The major characteristic 
                    changes are that the effective length of the virus is 
                    1,514 bytes, and that it can now infect both .COM and 
                    .EXE files, including COMMAND.COM.  There is also 
                    an encryption mechanism in this variant.  Datacrime II 
                    does not format disks on Mondays. 
                    Origin:  The Netherlands  September, 1989. 
       Datacrime IIB: A variant of the Datacrime II virus, 
                    Datacrime IIB infects generic .COM and .EXE files, 
                    including COMMAND.COM, adding 1,917 bytes to the file 
                    length.  The virus differs from Datacrime II in that 
                    the encryption method used by the virus to avoid 
                    detection has been changed. 
                    Origin:  The Netherlands  November, 1989. 
       Datacrime IIC: Based on the Datacrime IIB virus, this variant 
                    infects one .EXE or .COM file on the C: drive each 
                    time an infected program is executed.  Infected .COM 
                    programs increase in size by 1,480 bytes.  Infected 
                    .EXE programs increase in size by 1,604 to 1,981 
                    bytes.  In both cases, the virus will be located at 
                    the end of the file. 
                    Origin:  Unknown  October, 1992. 