Virus Name:  Deicide 
 Aliases:     Glenn, Deicide II 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  February, 1991 
 Symptoms:    .COM files overwritten; message; FAT corruption; system hang 
 Origin:      Netherlands 
 Eff Length:  666 Bytes 
 Type Code:   ONC - Overwriting Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  AVTK, F-Prot, ViruScan, Sweep, IBMAV, NAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, AVTK, ChAV, 
                    Sweep/N, NShld, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, LProt, IBMAV/N, 
                    NAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected programs 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Deicide virus was received in February, 1991 from the 
       Netherlands. This virus is a non-resident overwriting virus which 
       infects .COM files, but not COMMAND.COM.  Later variants of Deicide 
       are non-resident parasitic viruses, and are described below under 
       "Known variant(s)". 
 
       When a program infected with Deicide is executed, the virus will 
       search the current directory for an uninfected .COM program.  If an 
       uninfected .COM program is found, the virus will infect it, 
       overwriting the first 666 bytes of the program with the virus.  If 
       the newly infected program's original file length was 666 bytes or 
       more, then no file length change will show in the disk directory. 
       If originally the program was smaller than 666 bytes, its length 
       will now be 666 bytes. The following message may be displayed by the 
       virus after infecting a file: 
 
               "File corruption error." 
 
       If the virus does not find an uninfected .COM program in the current 
       directory, it will display the following message double spaced, and 
       overwrite the first 80 sectors of the system hard disk: 
 
               "DEICIDE! 
                Glenn (666) says : BYE BYE HARDDISK!! 
                Next time be carufull with illegal stuff" 
 
       The above messages can be found in all infected files, along with 
       the following message which is not displayed: 
 
                "This experimental virus was written by Glenn Benton 
                 to see if I can make a virus while learning machinecode 
                 for 2,5 months. (C) 10-23-1990 by Glenn. 
                 I keep on going making virusses." 
 
       Known variant(s) of Deicide are: 
       Brotherhood: Written by the same author as the Deicide virus, 
                  Brotherhood is a non-resident direct action infector 
                  of .COM programs, including COMMAND.COM.  It infects 
                  one .COM file in the current directory each time an 
                  infected program is executed.  Infected programs will 
                  have a file length increase of 477 bytes with the virus 
                  being located at the beginning of the file.  The program's 
                  date and time in the DOS disk directory listing will not 
                  be altered.  The following text strings can be found 
                  within the viral code in all Brotherhood infected files: 
                  'Brotherhood...' 
                  'I am seeking my brothers "DEICIDE" and "MORGOTH"...' 
                  'Found my brother "MORGOTH"!!!' 
                  'Found my brother "DEICIDE"!!!' 
                  '*.COM' 
                  '*** Glenn Benton ***' 
                  '????????COM' 
                  Origin:  Unknown  November, 1992 
       Deicide 2: Also known as Deicide-1335, Deicide 2 is a 1,335 
                  byte variant of the Deicide virus.  It infects one .COM 
                  program in the current directory each time an infected 
                  program is executed.  Infected programs will have a file 
                  length increase of 1,335 bytes with the virus being 
                  located at the beginning of the file.  There will be no 
                  change to the file's date and time in the DOS disk 
                  directory listing.  The following text strings are visible 
                  within the viral code in all Deicide 2 infected programs: 
                  "Suck my dick, Steffie!" 
                  "*.COM" 
                  "????????COM" 
                  Origin:  The Netherlands  December, 1992 
       Deicide II.622: Deicide II.622 is a 622 byte variant of the Deicide 
                  virus.  It infects one .COM program in the current 
                  directory when an infected program is executed.  Infected 
                  programs will have a file length increase of 622 bytes with 
                  the virus being located at the beginning of the file.  There 
                  will be no change to the file's date and time in the DOS 
                  disk directory listing.  The following text strings are 
                  visible within the viral code in all infected files: 
                  "This Personal Computer has been struck by the uncurable 
                   disease that is" 
                  "called "The Doom of Morgoth"." 
                  "*.COM" 
                  "????????COM" 
                  Origin:  The Netherlands  July, 1994 
       Deicide II.623: Deicide II.623 is a 623 byte variant of the Deicide 
                  virus.  It infects one .COM program in the current 
                  directory when an infected program is executed.  Infected 
                  programs will have a file length increase of 623 bytes with 
                  the virus being located at the beginning of the file.  There 
                  will be no change to the file's date and time in the DOS 
                  disk directory listing.  The following text strings are 
                  visible within the viral code in all infected files: 
                  "This Personal Computer has been struck by the uncurable 
                   disease that is" 
                  "called "The Doom of Morgoth"." 
                  "*.COM" 
                  "????????COM" 
                  Origin:  The Netherlands  July, 1994 
       Deicide II.2403: Received in January, 1996, this is a 2,403 byte 
                  variant.  It infects one .COM program in the current 
                  directory when an infected program is executed, and 
                  displays a message on the system monitor.  Infected files 
                  will have a file length increase of 2,403 bytes with the 
                  virus being located at the beginning of the file.  There 
                  will be no change to the file's date and time in the DOS 
                  disk directory listing.  The following text strings are 
                  visible within the viral code in all infected files: 
                  "McAfee us a bum-hole" 
                  "Patricia Hoffman is a virgin" 
                  "David Grant is a shithead" 
                  "Jan Terpstra sucks" 
                  "Vesselin Bontchev is a lamer" 
                  "Righard Zwienenberg is a cowboy" 
                  "Greetings to Cracker Jack in Italy" 
                  "DOS could be programmed better" 
                  "A virus may not hang, it must replicate!" 
                  "(C) by Glenn Benton DVRL" 
                  "HAHA you have a virus" 
                  "Dutch Virus Research Laboratory" 
                  "Program to big to fit in ass" 
                  "Another program bites the dust" 
                  "Havahey! Another Me born to serve" 
                  "Deicide wasnt that good at all..." 
                  "DEICIDE, MORGOTH, BREEZE, BROTHER by Glenn Benton" 
                  "Hey ! Gimme some more disks!" 
                  "Stealth techniques are cool" 
                  "Encryption is usefull..." 
                  "Stephanie my lovely girl" 
                  "FPROT is compiled BASIC" 
                  "Fuck da police!" 
                  "Source soon aveable for jokes!" 
                  "Why dont you play with something else?" 
                  "Thanks to BORLAND for Turbo Assembler" 
                  "It is time for NORTON SPEED DISK" 
                  "Donald duck is a lie..." 
                  "Why dont you buy me a CHEESEBURGER?" 
                  "Wim kok is a COMMUNIST!!!!" 
                  "Xabaras could be better" 
                  "FAT has a nice technique" 
                  "This virus is not resident!" 
                  "Nobody like debugging..." 
                  "60 messages in here?" 
                  "Out of worktime" 
                  "RAM parity error" 
                  "Insert porn magazine in drive A" 
                  "Insert tracktor toilet paper in printer" 
                  "Upload this virus to McAfee, please" 
                  "HIP-HOP sucks!" 
                  "Vote for Saddam." 
                  "DEAD BY DAWN" 
                  "NAIL HIM LIKE JESUS!" 
                  "May I fuck with your wife?" 
                  "Hey CJ! What about a Corporation (I&DVRL)" 
                  "Thanx to Oliver North for giving me TASM" 
                  "Do not use drugs, make a virus!" 
                  "Register this produkt!" 
                  "This virus is SHAREWARE" 
                  "You will hate me for this" 
                  "See the sunny side of life" 
                  "DAME EDNA IS COOL" 
                  "I like the pope, the pope smokes dope!" 
                  "We like the pope, he gives us his dope!" 
                  "Are you FLINTSTONED???" 
                  "How about a game of STRIP-POKER?" 
                  "FACES OF DEATH!" 
                  "Just one more message!!!" 
                  "Spread this like hell!" 
                  "*.COM" 
                  With the exception of the last text string, and of the 
                  other strings may be displayed as a message. 
                  Origin:  Unknown  January, 1996 
       Deicide-2405: Based on the Brotherhood variant of Deicide, 
                  Deicide-2405 infects one .COM program each time an 
                  infected program is executed, adding 2,405 bytes to the 
                  file, and then displays a message on the system display. 
                  The virus will be located at the beginning of the file, 
                  and there will be no change to the file's date and time 
                  in the DOS disk directory listing.  Approximately 60 
                  different messages may be displayed by the virus, all of 
                  which are visible in infected programs.  Many of the 
                  messages are insults to various anti-viral researchers. 
                  Origin:  The Netherlands  November, 1992 
       Deicide-2570: Based on the Brotherhood variant of Deicide, 
                  Deicide-2570 is fairly similar to the Deicide-2405 
                  variant described above.  It adds 2,570 bytes to the .COM 
                  programs it infects, the virus being located at the 
                  beginning of the file.  Approximately 60 messages also 
                  are contained in the virus, and one is displayed each time 
                  an infected program is executed.  Many of the mesages are 
                  of a sexual nature in this variant. 
                  Origin:  The Netherlands  November, 1992 
       Deicide-B: Based on the Deicide virus described above, this 
                  variant no longer overwrites the system hard disk after 
                  it has infected all of the .COM files in a directory. 
                  Origin:  Unknown  November, 1992 
 
       See:   Breeze 