Virus Name:  Den Zuk 
 Aliases:     Search, Venezuelan 
 V Status:    Common 
 Discovered:  September, 1988 
 Symptoms:    Message; floppy format; TSR; BSC 
 Origin:      Indonesia 
 Eff Length:  N/A 
 Type Code:   RtF - Resident Floppy Boot Sector Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, AVTK, NAV, Sweep, 
                    IBMAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV 
 Removal Instructions:  MDisk, F-Prot, NAV, or DOS SYS command 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Den Zuk virus is a memory-resident, boot sector infector of 360K 
       5-1/4" diskettes.  The virus can infect any diskette in a floppy 
       drive that is accessed, even if the diskette is not bootable.  If an 
       attempt is made to boot the system with an infected non-system disk, 
       Den Zuk will install itself into memory even though the boot 
       failed.  After the system is booted with an infected diskette, a 
       purple "DEN ZUK" graphic will appear after a CTL-ALT-DEL is 
       performed if the system has a CGA, EGA, or VGA monitor.  While the 
       original Den Zuk virus did not cause any damage to the system, some 
       variants maintain a counter of how many times the system has been 
       rebooted, and after the counter reaches its limit, the floppy in the 
       disk drive is reformatted. The counter in these variants of the 
       virus is usually in the range of 5 to 10. 
 
       The following text strings can be found in the viral code on 
       diskettes which have been infected with the Den Zuk virus: 
 
                 "Welcome to the 
                     C l u b 
                  --The HackerS-- 
                      Hackin' 
                   All The Time 
 
                   The HackerS" 
 
       The diskette volume label of infected diskettes may be changed to 
       Y.C.1.E.R.P., though this change only occurs if the Den Zuk virus 
       removed a Pakistani Brain infection before infecting the diskette 
       with Den Zuk.  The Den Zuk virus will also remove an Ohio virus 
       infection before infecting the diskette with Den Zuk. 
 
       The Den Zuk virus is thought to be written by the same person or 
       persons as the Ohio virus.  The "Y.C.1.E.R.P." string is found in 
       the Ohio virus, and the viral code is similar in many respects. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Den Zuk are: 
       Den Zuk-RPKS: A minor variant of Den Zuk, this variant has 
                     some of the text located on track 40 altered, as 
                     well as the boot sector altered to avoid detection 
                     with the original Den Zuk detection strings. 
                     Origin:  Unknown  May, 1992. 
 
       See:   LZRQ    Ohio 