Virus Name:  Dir-2 
 Aliases:     Creeping Death, FAT 
 V Status:    Common 
 Discovered:  September, 1991 
 Symptoms:    lost clusters; program corruption on file copy; cross linked 
              files indicated by DOS CHKDSK program after boot from clean 
              diskette 
 Origin:      Bulgaria 
 Eff Length:  N/A 
 Type Code:   ZRAK - Resident Directory Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, Sweep, AVTK, F-Prot, ChAV, 
                    IBMAV, NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, NAV/N, 
                    IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Low level format system & reformat diskettes 
 General Comments: 
       The Dir-2, or FAT, virus was reported in Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, 
       and Yugoslavia in September 1991.  The copy analysed of this virus 
       was received from Tamas Szalay of Budapest, Hungary.  The Dir-2 
       virus is a memory resident stealth virus which uses a completely new 
       technique for replicating, and moves very quickly through exposed 
       systems.  It is very difficult to detect, not having many visible 
       or measurable symptoms. 
 
       The Dir-2 virus becomes memory resident when the computer system is 
       booted from an infected diskette or hard disk, and a program is 
       executed.  Since the boot executes the hidden system files, 
       the virus becomes memory resident when they are executed.  The 
       virus will be resident in low system memory, in the area where the 
       system configuration information (IO and MSDOS) is normally 
       found.  Once the boot completes, total system memory will not have 
       been altered, but available free memory will be 1,552 bytes less 
       that expected.  If the user views memory allocation with some 
       memory mapping utilities, the "CONFIG" area will be 1,552 bytes 
       larger than expected. 
 
       At the time of the boot, the system hard disk will become infected 
       by the virus as well, if it was not already infected. 
 
       Once Dir-2 is memory resident, any non-write protected diskettes 
       accessed on the system will be infected.  The virus places its 
       viral code in the last cluster of diskettes.  On the system hard 
       disk, the virus will be located in a previously unused cluster. 
       The virus then encrypts the original pointers for the 
       executable files on the disk, and copies them to an unused area 
       of the disk directory.  The original pointers are then altered to 
       point to the virus' code on the hard disk. 
 
       Viewing the directory of infected diskettes will result in a normal 
       appearing directory.  All executable programs will indicate their 
       original file sizes and date/time stamps.  In fact, the original 
       programs have not been altered at all.  If the user executes one 
       of the programs, the virus will be executed (due to the change to 
       the disk directory). Using the encrypted pointers to the program's 
       actual location, the Dir-2 virus will then load the program the 
       user was attempting to execute, so that it is executed. 
 
       The major symptom of a Dir-2 virus infection is the effect the virus 
       has on the system after powering off and booting from a known clean 
       DOS system diskette.  Attempts to copy files from infected disks 
       will result in the files not being copied properly.  The newly 
       copied files will contain the virus code which is located in the 
       last cluster of the disk.  Attempts to use backup programs will 
       have a similar result.  Executing DOS CHKDSK program with the virus 
       non-resident will result in a large number of lost clusters being 
       found due to the change in the directory.  All executable files 
       will be indicated as being cross-linked on the same sector, this 
       sector is the location of the viral code on the disk.  If the /F 
       parameter is used, permanent file corruption of all executable 
       programs will be the result.  Note that execution of the DOS CHKDSK 
       program with the virus memory resident will not indicate any file 
       allocation or cross-linking of programs due to the presence of the 
       virus. 
 
       If you suspect you have a Dir-2 infection, power off the system 
       and cold boot from a known-clean write-protected DOS system diskette, 
       and check for the above symptoms on the system hard disk.  Be 
       careful to not execute any programs from the hard disk as the virus 
       will become memory resident. 
 
       Without an anti-viral utility to detect and remove Dir-2, it is 
       possible to manually disinfect a system by copying all executable 
       programs to non-executable names with the virus memory resident. 
       The system should then be powered off and rebooted from a clean, 
       write protected system diskette.  Without executing any program from 
       the system hard disk, backup the renamed files and your data files. 
       The system should then be low level formatted.  Once the system is 
       reformatted, restore the backup and rename the renamed files to 
       their original names. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Dir-2 are: 
       Byway.A: Received in July, 1996, this variant is reported to 
             be "in the wild".  It becomes memory resident as a low 
             system memory TSR of 3,216 bytes, hooking interrupt 21. 
             Once resident, it infects .COM and .EXE files in the root 
             directory of the system hard disk and non-write protected 
             diskettes when they are accessed, in a manner similar to 
             the original Dir-2 virus.  This virus contains the text 
             string "", though this text string 
             is encrypted within the viral code.  This variant will also 
             either replace or create the file "CHKLIST.MS" in the root 
             directory, and may interfer with the functionality of 
             Microsoft Anti-Virus.  It can be disinfected in the same 
             manner as the original virus, with the addition that the 
             user must be sure to remove the "CHKLIST.MS" file which will 
             contain viral code. 
             Origin:  Unknown  July, 1996. 
       Byway.B: Also received in July, 1996, this is a minor variant 
             of Byway.A.  It is similar, though it will also infect 
             subdirectories.  It contains the following encrypted text 
             strings: 
             "The-HndV" 
             "By:W.Chan-N" 
             Origin:  Unknown  July, 1996. 
       CD10: Functionally equivalent, this is a minor variant which is 
             undetectable by some anti-viral programs. 
             Origin:  Bulgaria  November, 1991. 
       CD11: Functionally equivalent to CD10 and the original virus, 
             this is another minor variant. 
             Origin:  Bulgaria  November, 1991. 
       CD12: Functionally equivalent to the other members of this 
             family of viruses, it is a minor variant. 
             Origin:  Bulgaria  November, 1991. 
       Dir 2-910: Similar to the other members of this family, this 
             variant stores its viral code on the last two sectors of the 
             current drive.  Executing the first infected program will 
             result in the infection of the C: drive and current drive 
             root directories.  Its size in memory is 1,632 bytes. 
             Origin:  Unknown  November, 1992. 