Virus Name:  Hacktic 
 Aliases:    
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  June, 1992 
 Symptoms:    .EXE programs truncated to 83 bytes; .EXE programs become 
              hidden; files fail to execute properly; file date/time 
              changes 
 Origin:      The Netherlands 
 Eff Length:  83 Bytes 
 Type Code:   ONE - Non-Resident Overwriting .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, AVTK, F-Prot, IBMAV, Sweep, NAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, AVTK/N, LProt, Sweep/N, NAV/N, NProt, IBMAV/N, 
                    Innoc 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Hacktic virus was received from The Netherlands in June, 1992. 
       Hacktic is a non-resident, direct action overwriting virus which 
       infects .EXE programs.  There is a later version of this virus, 
       Hacktic 2, which is a parasitic virus which infects .COM programs. 
 
       When a program infected with the Hacktic virus is executed, the 
       Hacktic virus will infect one .EXE program located in the 
       current directory.  Infected .EXE programs will be truncated to 
       83 bytes, and only contain the Hacktic viral code.  The .EXE file 
       will disappear from the disk directory as it will have the hidden 
       attribute byte set.  The file's date and time in the DOS disk 
       directory will be set to the system date and time when infection 
       occurred. 
 
       Hacktic doesn't do anything besides replicate, destroying the files 
       it infects. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Hacktic are: 
       Hacktic 2: Also received in June, 1992, Hacktic 2 is a non- 
                  resident direct action infector of .COM programs, 
                  including COMMAND.COM.  It will infect one .COM 
                  program in the current directory each time an infected 
                  program is executed.  Infected programs will have a 
                  file length increase of 93 bytes with the virus being 
                  located at the beginning of the file.  The program's 
                  date and time in the DOS disk directory will have been 
                  changed to the system date and time when infection 
                  occurred.  Hacktic 2 doesn't do anything besides 
                  replicate, and doesn't appear to be in the public domain. 
                  Origin:  The Netherlands  June, 1992. 