Virus Name:  Hydra Family 
 Aliases:     Hydra, Hydra-0, Hydra-1, Hydra-2, Hydra-3, Hydra-4, Hydra-5, 
              Hydra-6, Hydra-7, Hydra-8, Hydra-8 Trojan 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  December, 1991 
 Symptoms:    .COM file growth; file date/time change; message displayed; 
              unexpected errors; program execution failure; system hangs; 
              programs deleted; programs truncated 
 Origin:      Unknown 
 Eff Length:  340 - 736 Bytes, depending on variant present 
 Type Code:   PNCK - Parasitic Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  Sweep, ViruScan, AVTK, F-Prot, ChAV, 
                    NAV, IBMAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Hydra Family of viruses was received in December, 1991.  Its 
       origin or point of isolation is unknown.  The Hydra Family 
       contains nine closely related viruses, and one trojan which is 
       dropped by one of the viruses.  All of the viruses are non-resident, 
       direct action infectors of .COM programs.  The earliest virus, 
       Hydra-0, is described below, with the other eight later viruses 
       and the trojan included in "Known variant(s)". 
 
       When a program infected with Hydra-0 is executed, the Hydra-0 
       virus will search the current directory for one non-infected .COM 
       program to infect.  If one is found, Hydra-0 will infect it. 
       Hydra-0 infected programs will have a file length increase of 
       736 bytes, the virus will be located at the beginning of the 
       infected file.  The file's date and time in the DOS disk directory 
       will have been updated to the current system date and time when 
       infection occurred. 
 
       If Hydra-0 does not find an uninfected .COM file in the current 
       directory, it will activate.  At this time, it will display a 
       message with the following text, and return the user to the DOS 
       prompt: 
 
               "HYDRA" 
               "Watch for the many heads. 
                The first eight are easy to find and kill. 
                Their replacements will be more sophisticated." 
               "(c) 1991  -  C. A. V. E." 
 
       The above text, along with the additional text strings indicated 
       below can be found in all Hydra-0 infected programs: 
 
               "HyDra" 
               "Beta - Not For Release. *.CO?" 
               "Copyright (c) by C.A.V.E." 
               "Coalition  of   American  Virus   Engineers" 
               "  -=-=-  " 
               "Dedicated  to  supporting  the   anti-virus    industry 
                without recognition or reward." 
 
       Hydra-0 does not do anything besides replicate and display its 
       message. 
 
       Known members of the Hydra Family, besides Hydra-0, are: 
       Hydra-1: Hydra-1 is similar to the Hydra-0 virus.  It adds 403 
                bytes to the .COM files it infects.  After all the .COM 
                files in the current directory have been infected, it will 
                display the following message, and the system will be 
                hung: 
                "HYDRA" 
                "Copyright (c)  1991 by C.A.V.E." 
                The above text strings will be found in all Hydra-1 infected 
                programs along with the following additional text string: 
                "YD  HyDra-1   Beta - Not For Release. *.CO?" 
       Hydra-2: Based on Hydra-1, Hydra-2 is a 343 byte variant.  It 
                adds 343 bytes to the .COM files it infects.  After all the 
                .COM files in the current directory have been infected, it 
                will not display any message, and no system hang will 
                occur.  It contains the following text strings: 
                "YD  HyDra-2   Beta - Not For Release. *.CO?" 
                "Copyright (c)  1991 by C.A.V.E" 
       Hydra-3: Based on Hydra-2, Hydra-3 is one byte smaller.  It adds 
                342 bytes to the .COM files it infects.  After all the .COM 
                files in the current directory have been infected, the 
                user will not be able to successfully execute any programs. 
                Attempts to execute .EXE programs will result in the user 
                being returned to the DOS prompt.  Attempts to execute .COM 
                programs may result in unexpected error messages.  For 
                example, execution of the DOS CHKDSK program will typically 
                result in a message indicating the file allocation table 
                is bad, even though it is actually undamaged.  Text strings 
                found within programs infected with Hydra-3 are: 
                "YD  HyDra-3   Beta - Not For Release. *.CO?" 
                "Copyright (c)  1991 by C.A.V.E." 
                Unlike other members of the Hydra Family, Hydra-3 will 
                occassionally reinfect already infected programs, adding 
                an additional 342 bytes to the file. 
       Hydra-4: Based on Hydra-3, Hydra-2 is two bytes smaller.  It adds 
                340 bytes to the .COM files it infects.  After all the .COM 
                files in the current directory have been infected, 
                execution of any program will result in the DOS error 
                message: "General Failur error reading drive".  The disk 
                which is receiving the error is actually ok, and will be 
                accessible after rebooting the system and disinfecting the 
                virus.  Text strings found within Hydra-4 infected programs 
                are: 
                "YD  HyDra-4   Beta - Not For Release. *.CO?" 
                "Copyright (c)  1991 by C.A.V.E." 
                Hydra-4 does not reinfect files as Hydra-3 does. 
       Hydra-5: The Hydra-5 virus is based on the Hydra-4 variant.  It 
                adds 391 bytes to the .COM files it infects.  After all the 
                .COM files in the current directory have been infected, 
                execution of the next infected .COM file will result in all 
                .EXE files located in the current directory being deleted. 
                Text strings found within Hydra-5 infected programs are: 
                "YD  HyDra-5   Beta - Not For Release. *.CO?" 
                "Copyright (c)  1991 by C.A.V.E." 
                "????????EXE" 
       Hydra-6: The Hydra-6 virus is based on the Hydra-5 variant.  It 
                adds 372 bytes to the .COM files it infects.  After all the 
                .COM files in the current directory have been infected, 
                execution of the next infected .COM file will result in 
                any file in the current directory with the base file name 
                COMMAND (ie COMMAND.*) being truncated to zero bytes. 
                Text strings found within Hydra-6 infected programs are: 
                "YD  HyDra-6   Beta - Not For Release. *.CO?" 
                "Copyright (c)  1991 by C.A.V.E.  COMMAND.*" 
       Hydra-7: The Hydra-7 virus is based on the Hydra-6 variant.  It 
                adds 368 bytes to the .COM files it infects.  After all the 
                .COM files in the current directory have been infected, 
                execution of the next infected .COM file will result in all 
                .EXE programs located in the current directory being 
                truncated to zero bytes in length.  Text strings found 
                within Hydra-7 infected files are: 
                "YD  HyDra-7   Beta - Not For Release. *.CO?" 
                "Copyright (c)  1991 by C.A.V.E.  *.EXE" 
       Hydra-8: The Hydra-8 virus is based on the Hydra-7 variant.  It 
                adds 495 bytes to the .COM files it infects.  After all the 
                .COM files in the current directory have been infected, 
                execution of the next infected .COM file will result in 
                four .EXE files in the current directory being replaced by 
                a 90 byte trojan program (see below as Hydra-8 Trojan). 
                Text strings found within Hydra-8 infected programs are: 
                "YD  HyDra-8   Beta - Not For Release. *.CO?" 
                "Copyright (c)  1991 by C.A.V.E.  *.EXE 3" 
       Hydra-8 Trojan: The Hydra-8 Trojan is a 90 byte program which 
                the Hydra-8 virus will replace four .EXE programs with in 
                the current directory when it activates.  When these 
                Hydra-8 programs are later executed, it will display the 
                following text string in the middle of the user's display, 
                and return the user to the DOS prompt: 
                "Who is John Gait?" 
                This text string is not visible within the trojan program. 