Virus Name:  Violator 
 Aliases:     Vienna.Violator, Violator Strain B 
 V Status:    Endangered 
 Discovered:  August, 1990 
 Isolated:    United States 
 Symptoms:    .COM growth; "Sector not found" error on drive B:; formats 
              disk drives 
 Origin:      Canada 
 Eff Length:  1,055 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PNCK - Parasitic Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, NAV, AVTK, F-Prot, Sweep, ChAV, 
                    IBMAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Violator virus was submitted in August, 1990 by an anonymous 
       user of Homebase BBS.  While originally isolated in the United 
       States, this virus is originally from Canada.  This virus is a 
       non-resident parasitic virus which infects .COM files, including 
       COMMAND.COM. 
 
       When a program infected with the Violator virus is executed, what 
       happens depends on what the system date is set to.  If the date is 
       prior to August 15, 1990, the virus will infect one .COM file 
       located in the current directory, adding 1,055 bytes to the 
       program.  If the date is August 15, 1990 or after, the virus will 
       not infect any files, but will format the first track of the disk 
       drive. 
 
       Symptoms of an infection of the Violator virus include unexpected 
       attempts to access drive B:.  If there is no diskette in drive B:, 
       or the diskette in drive B: is write-protected, a Sector not found 
       error will result. 
 
       The following message appears in the viral code located in infected 
       programs: 
 
           "TransMogrified (TM) 1990 by 
            RABID N'tnl Development Corp 
            Copyright (c) 1990 RABID! 
            Activation Date: 08/15/90 
            - Violator Strain B - 
            ! (Field Demo Test Version) ! 
            ! * NOT TO BE DISTRIBUTED * !" 
 
       Known variant(s) of Violator are: 
       Baby: Baby is a 1,000 byte variant of Violator, its origin is 
             unknown.  Baby infects one .COM file in the current directory 
             each time an infected program is executed.  Infected programs 
             will have a file length increase of 1,000 bytes with the virus 
             being located at the end of the file.  The program's date and 
             time in the DOS disk directory listing will appear to be 
             unaltered, however the seconds field will have been set to 
             "60".  The following text strings are visible within the viral 
             code in all Baby infected programs: 
             "*.COM" 
             "by by baby" 
             "PATH=" 
             "????????COM" 
             It is unknown what Baby may do besides replicate. 
             Origin:  Unknown  June, 1993. 
       Violator B1: Based on the Violator BT variant, this variant is 716 
                    bytes in length.  The major change is that Violator B1 
                    activates on September 4, October 4, November 4, and 
                    December 4.  On these dates, when an infected program 
                    is executed it will reformat track 0 of all drives. 
                    The only text strings found in this variant are: 
                    "*.com" "????????COM" 
       Violator B2: Violator B2 is a 1,000 byte variant of Violator, and 
                    is also related to the Arf virus which appears to have 
                    also been written by the same group.  Violator B2 will 
                    activate on October 31 and December 31 when the year 
                    is 1990 or later.  At that time, it will wipe out the 
                    C: drive by overwriting the first 700h sectors with 
                    random bytes.  This variant contains the text strings: 
                    "*.COM" "Arf Arf! Got you!" "????????COM" "-- RABID 
                    '90" "down or DIE!" "--- RABID '90" Violator B2 
                    infects one or two .COM programs each time an 
                    infected program is executed, along with displaying 
                    the message: "Arf Arf Got you! -- RABID '90" 
       Violator B2-969: Violator B2-969 is a 969 byte variant of the 
                        Violator B2 virus indicated above.  It contains the 
                        text strings: "*.COM" "????????.COM" and 
                        "Violator B2 (C) '90 RABID Nat'nl Development Corp." 
       Violator B3: Violator B3 is a 843 byte variant of Violator.  Like 
                    the other Violators, it infects a .COM file each time 
                    an infected program is executed.  Unlike the other 
                    violators, it will also affect the C: drive, 
                    overwriting the boot sector and file allocation table 
                    immediately in some circumstances.  Damage caused by 
                    Violator B3 can be fixed with Norton Disk Doctor. 
                    Violator B3 should activate on December 25, at which 
                    time it will attempt to format the current drive. 
                    Text strings found in Violator B3 are: "Violator 
                    Strain B3 - RABID Nat'nl Development Corp. " "*. COM" 
       Violator BT: Very similar to the Violator virus described above, 
                    this variant will replicate after August 15, 1990.  It 
                    includes the same text strings as indicated above for 
                    Violator. 
       Violator.707: Violator.707 is a 707 byte variant of Violator. 
                   It infects a .COM file each time an infected program is 
                   executed.  Infected files will have a file length increase 
                   of 707 bytes with the virus being located at the end of 
                   the file.  The seconds field of the file time in the DOS 
                   disk directory will have been set to "62".  The following 
                   text strings are visible within the viral code: 
                   "DDrUS (C) - 1990" 
                   "*.COM" 
                   "PATH=" 
                   "????????COM" 
                   Origin:  Unknown  July, 1994. 
       Violator-C: Violator-C is a 821 byte variant of Violator.  Like 
                   the other Violators, it infects a .COM file each time 
                   an infected program is executed.  Infected files will 
                   have a file length increase of 821 bytes with the virus 
                   being located at the end of the file.  The seconds field 
                   of the file time in the DOS disk directory will have been 
                   set to "56".  The following text strings are contained 
                   within the viral code, unencrypted: 
                   "Violator Strain C - 
                    (C) 1991 RABID Int'nl Development Corp." 
                   "Violator strikes again..." 
                   "PATH=*.COM" 
                   "COMMAND.COM" 
                   "????????COM" 
                   Violator-C activates in October thru November of any 
                   year, at which time execution of an infected program 
                   will result in the overwriting of the beginning of the 
                   system hard disk, and the following message being 
                   displayed: "Violator strikes again...". 
                   Origin:  Canada  October, 1992. 
 
       See:   Arf   Vienna   Violator B4   Violite 