Virus Name:  AIDS 
 Aliases:     Hahaha, Taunt, VGA2CGA, Burger.Pascal 
 V Status:    Viron 
 Discovery:   1989 
 Symptoms:    Message; .COM file corruption 
 Origin:     
 Eff Length:  N/A 
 Type Code:   ONA - Overwriting Non-Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, AVTK, F-Prot, NAV, Sweep, 
                    IBMAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, AVTK/N, NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected .COM files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The AIDS virus, also known as the Hahaha virus in Europe and 
       referred to as the Taunt virus by IBM, is a generic .COM and 
       .EXE file infector.  When the virus activates, it displays the 
       message "Your computer now has AIDS", with AIDS covering about 
       half of the screen.  The system is then halted, and must be 
       powered down and rebooted to restart it.  Since this virus 
       overwrites the first 13,952 bytes of the executable program, the 
       files must be deleted and replaced with clean copies in order to 
       remove the virus.  It is not possible to recover the overwritten 
       portion of the program. 
 
       Note: this is NOT the Aids Info Disk/PC Cyborg Trojan. 
 
       Known variant(s) of AIDS are: 
       AIDS B: Very similar to the original AIDS virus, this variant is 
               also 13,952 bytes in length.  Unlike the original virus, it 
               will only infect .COM files, as well as COMMAND.COM, and 
               does not activate as the original virus did.  Instead, this 
               variant will occasionally issue the following error message: 
               "I/O error 99, PC=2EFD Program aborted". This variant was 
               received in January, 1991, origin unknown. 
       AIDS-1992: Isolated at several locations in the United States in 
               May, 1992, this variant of the AIDS virus has been altered to 
               avoid detection by anti-viral utilities.  Among the changes 
               to the virus are that it will not infect files if there are 
               less than two subdirectories on the current drive.  System 
               hangs may occur when infected programs are executed, as well 
               as the system video mode may be switched to 25 x 40 Black & 
               White from color mode. 
               Origin:  United States  May, 1992. 
 
       See:   Number One 