 Virus Name:  Voronezh 
 Aliases: 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  December 1990 
 Symptoms:    .COM & .EXE growth; decrease in total system and available 
              memory 
 Origin:      USSR 
 Eff Length:  1,600 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRhA - Parasitic Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  AVTK, F-Prot, NAV, Sweep, IBMAV, VAlert, 
                    ViruScan, NAVDX, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    Sweep/N, Innoc, AVTK/N, NAV/N, IBMAV/N, NShld, LProt 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Voronezh virus was received in December, 1990.  It is 
       originally from the USSR.  Voronezh is a memory resident 
       infector of .COM and .EXE files, and does not infect COMMAND.COM. 
 
       The first time a program infected with Voronezh is executed the 
       virus will install itself memory resident.  This virus will be 
       resident at the top of system memory but below the 640K DOS 
       boundary.  While the virus reserves 3,744 bytes of memory for 
       itself, it does not move the interrupt 12 return.  Interrupt 21 
       will be hooked by the virus.  This virus may also reserve 24 bytes 
       of display memory on the display adapter card. 
 
       After Voronezh is memory resident, .COM and .EXE files will be 
       infected when they are executed.  Infected files will increase in 
       length by 1,600 bytes, the virus will be located at the end of 
       infected programs.  Infected programs will also contain the text 
       string: 
 
               "Voronezh,1990 2.01". 
 
       It is unknown if this virus does anything besides replicate. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Voronezh are: 
       Voronezh B: Similar to the Voronezh virus described above, the 
                   major difference with Voronezh B is that Voronezh B 
                   will infect files when they are executed or opened for 
                   any reason.  The original virus did not infect on file 
                   open.  The text string indicated for Voronezh is also 
                   found in this variant. 
 
       See:   Voronezh-370   Voronezh-Chemist 