Virus Name:  Vote 
 Aliases:    
 V Status:    Viron 
 Discovered:  June, 1992 
 Symptoms:    .COM file growth; system hangs; message display 
 Origin:      Bulgaria 
 Eff Length:  1,004 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PNCK - Parasitic Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  AVTK, Sweep, ViruScan, IBMAV, F-Prot, ChAV, 
                    NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, LProt, IBMAV/N, 
                    NAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Vote virus was submitted in June, 1992.  It is originally from 
       Bulgaria.  Vote is a non-resident direct action infector of .COM 
       files, including COMMAND.COM. 
 
       When a program infected with the Vote virus is executed, the Vote 
       virus will infect the first .COM program located in the current 
       directory.  If this program was previously infected with Vote, the 
       virus will reinfect it.  The program the user was attempting to 
       execute will then run.  When the user attempts to execute another 
       program, .BAT file, or DOS command, a system hang will usually 
       occur. 
 
       Programs infected with the Vote virus will have a file length 
       increase of 1,004 bytes for each infection of Vote within the file. 
       The Vote virus will be located at the end of the file.  The program's 
       date and time in the DOS disk directory listing will not be altered. 
 
       The Vote virus will not infect programs from replicated samples, 
       though the 1,000 byte variant listed below does infect programs 
       from replicated samples. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Vote are: 
       Vote-1000: A later version of the Vote virus, this variant does 
                  not reinfect programs.  It infects one of the first four 
                  .COM files in the current directory when an infected 
                  program is executed.  Infected programs will have a file 
                  length increase of 1,000 bytes with the virus located at 
                  the end of the file.  The program's date and time in the 
                  DOS disk directory listing will not be altered.  Vote-1000 
                  will occassionally attempt to display a message, though 
                  the message may be in cyrillic and is thus unreadable on 
                  most systems. 
                  Origin:  Bulgaria  June, 1992 