Virus Name:  Prime   
 Aliases:     Prime.580, Prime Evil 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  July, 1992 
 Symptoms:    .COM file growth; unexpected system reboots; programs fail 
              to execute properly 
 Origin:      Sweden 
 Eff Length:  580 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PNCK - Parasitic Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  Sweep, ViruScan, F-Prot, IBMAV, AVTK, 
                    NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, ChAV, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, LProt, IBMAV/N, 
                    NAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Prime, or Prime Evil, virus was received in July, 1992.  It is 
       originally from Stockholm, Sweden.  Prime is a non-resident, 
       direct action infector of .COM programs, including COMMAND.COM. 
 
       When a program infected with the Prime virus is executed, the 
       Prime virus will locate and infect one previously uninfected .COM 
       program in the current directory.  Infected programs will have a 
       file length increase of 580 bytes with the virus being located 
       at the beginning of the infected file.  The program's date and 
       time in the DOS disk directory listing will not be altered. 
 
       The following text strings are encrypted within the Prime viral 
       code, and as such cannot be seen in infected programs: 
 
               "*.C*" 
               "Prime Evil! (C) Spellbound, Line Noise 1992." 
               "Coded in Stockholm, Sweden." 
               "Please spell my name right!" 
              
       Once the Prime virus has infected all of the .COM programs in the 
       current directory, execution of an infected program will result 
       in a warm reboot occurring. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Prime are: 
       Prime.1164: Received in December, 1996, this is a 1,164 byte 
           variant of the Prime virus described above.  It infects one 
           .COM file in the current directory, including possibly 
           COMMAND.COM, when an infected program is executed.  Infected 
           .COM files will have a file length increase of 1,164 bytes 
           with the virus being located at the beginning of the file. 
           The program's date and time in the DOS disk directory listing 
           will not be altered.  The following text strings are encrypted 
           within the viral code: 
           "*.C* Prime Evil! (C) Spellbound, Line Noise 1992." 
           "Coded in Stockholm, Sweden." 
           "Please spell my name right!" 
           Systems will fail to boot once COMMAND.COM becomes infected. 
           Origin:  Unknown  December, 1996. 
       Prime.1806: Received in July, 1995, this is a 1,806 byte 
           variant of the Prime virus described above.  It infects one 
           .COM file in the current directory, including possibly 
           COMMAND.COM, when an infected program is executed.  Infected 
           .COM files will have a file length increase of 1,806 bytes 
           with the virus being located at the beginning of the file. 
           The program's date and time in the DOS disk directory listing 
           will not be altered.  The following text strings are visible 
           within the viral code: 
           "*.C* Prime Evil! (C) Spellbound, Line Noise 1992." 
           "Coded in Stockholm, Sweden." 
           "Please spell my name right!" 
           Once all of the .COM files in the current directory have 
           become infected, the system will constantly attempt to reboot 
           when another infected program is executed. 
           Origin:  Unknown  July, 1995. 