Virus Name:  Fish 
 Aliases:     European Fish Viruses, Fish 6, Stealth Virus 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  May 1990 
 Symptoms:    .COM & .EXE growth; monitor/display flickering; system 
              memory decrease 
 Origin:      West Germany 
 Eff Length:  3,584  Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRsAK - Parasitic Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, NAV, AVTK, Sweep, 
                    IBMAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  NAV, or delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Fish virus was isolated in May 1990.  At the time of isolation, 
       it was reported to be widespread in Europe, and it is thought to 
       have originated in West Germany.  It is a generic resident .COM and 
       .EXE infector, and will infect COMMAND.COM.  This virus will remain 
       memory resident through a warm reboot (CTRL-ALT-DEL).  The virus is 
       encrypted, though infected programs can be found by searching for 
       the text string "FISH FI" appearing near the end of the program. 
       The "FISH FI" string may later disappear from the program. 
 
       The first time a program infected with the Fish virus is executed, 
       the virus will go memory resident, installing itself into the low 
       available free memory.  If interrupt 13 has not been hooked by 
       another program, it will hook interrupt 13.  If it can hook 
       interrupt 13, it will take up 8,192 bytes in memory.  If the virus 
       cannot hook interrupt 13 because another program is already using 
       it, it will be 4,096 bytes in memory. 
 
       When interrupt 13 is not hooked, and the virus is memory resident, 
       the virus will cause a random warm reboot, thus allowing it to 
       infect COMMAND.COM and hook interrupt 13.  Warm reboots do not 
       appear to randomly occur after interrupt 13 has been hooked. 
 
       After the virus is memory resident, all .COM and .EXE programs which 
       are opened for any reason will be infected.  Infected programs 
       increase in length by 3,584 bytes.  The increase in program size 
       cannot be seen by listing the disk directory if the virus is in 
       memory.  Also, if a CHKDSK command is run on an infected system, it 
       will detect file allocation errors on infected files.  If CHKDSK is 
       run with the /F option, it will result in lost clusters and 
       cross-linking of files. 
 
       The virus slows down video writes, and flickering of the monitor 
       display can be noticed on an infected system. 
 
       Anti-viral programs which perform CRC checking cannot detect the 
       infection of the program by the Fish virus if the virus is memory 
       resident.  This virus can also bypass software write-protect 
       mechanisms used to protect a hard drive. 
 
       The Fish virus is a modified version of the 4096 virus, though it is 
       more sophisticated in that it constantly re-encrypts itself in 
       system memory.  Viewing system memory with the virus resident will 
       show that the names of several fish are present. 
 
       It is unknown what the Fish virus does when it activates, though it 
       does appear to check to determine if the year of the system time is 
       1991. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Fish are: 
       Fish F: A variant of the Fish virus described above, this variant 
               has been altered to avoid detection by some anti-viral 
               utilities.  Its size in memory is 4,096 bytes, hooking 
               interrupt 21.  It adds 3,584 bytes to the .COM and .EXE 
               files it infects, though the file length increase is hidden 
               when Fish F is memory resident.  The Fish F virus contains 
               the following text strings which are encrypted within the 
               viral code: 
               "FISH VIRUS #6 - EACH DIFF - BONN 2/90" 
               "TROUT3" 
               "MUSKY2" 
               "SOLE" 
               "PIKE3" 
               "MACKEREL" 
               "FISH F" 
               The "FISH F" text string will also usually appear unencrypted 
               near the end of infected files.  The first text string above 
               will also occassionally be displayed by the virus when it is 
               memory resident. 
               Origin:  Unknown  April 1993. 
       Fish II: Based on the Fish virus described above, this variant's 
                size in memory is 4,096 bytes, directly hooking interrupts 
                so that memory mapping utilities will not indicate that 
                any interrupts are hooked.  Once resident, it will infect 
                .COM and .EXE programs when they are executed.  Infected 
                programs will have a file length increase of 3,584 bytes, 
                though the file length increase will be hidden when the 
                virus is memory resident.  Fish II is polymorphic, and no 
                text strings are visible within the viral code.  The 
                encryption is altered from the original virus in order to 
                avoid detection by anti-viral programs familiar with Fish 
                but not this variant. 
                Origin:  Unknown  January 1993. 
       Kradee 1.0: A variant of the Fish virus described above, this 
               variant has been altered to avoid detection by some anti-viral 
               utilities.  Its size in memory is 4,096 bytes, it directly 
               hooks interrupts so that memory mapping utilities will not 
               indicate that any interrupts are hooked.  It adds 3,584 bytes 
               to the .COM and .EXE files it infects, though the file length 
               increase is hidden when Kradee 1.0 is memory resident.  The 
               Kradee 1.0 virus contains the following text strings which are 
               encrypted within the viral code: 
               "FISH" 
               "COD" 
               "SHARK" 
               "CARP" 
               "BASS" 
               "KRADEE VIRUS VERSION 1.00 By Metsys RetupMoc D&R" 
               "TROUT" 
               "FIN" 
               "MUSKYZ" 
               "DOLR" 
               "PIKE3" 
               "MACKEREL" 
               "TUNA" 
               The text string "FISH" occurs near the end of all infected 
               .COM and .EXE files.  The "KRADEE VIRUS" text string above 
               will be displayed by the virus when an infected program is 
               executed.  System output will be sluggish when Kradee 1.0 is 
               memory resident, and the DOS CHKDSK program will indicate file 
               allocation errors on all infected files.  System hangs may 
               also occur when infected programs are executed. 
               Origin:  Unknown  March 1994. 
 
       See:   Revelation 