Virus Name:  Alameda 
 Aliases:     Mazatlan, Merritt, Peking, Seoul, Yale 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovery:   1987 
 Symptoms:    Floppy boot failures; resident-TOM; BSC 
 Origin:      California, United States 
 Eff Length:  N/A 
 Type Code:   RtF - Resident Floppy Boot Sector Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, AVTK, NAV, Sweep, IBMAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV 
 Removal Instructions:  MDisk, F-Prot, NAV, or DOS SYS 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Alameda virus was first discovered at Merritt college in 
       Alameda, California in 1987.  The original version of this virus 
       caused no intentional damage, though there is now at least one 
       variant of this virus that now causes floppy disks to become 
       unbootable after a counter has reached its limit (Alameda-C virus). 
 
       The Alameda virus, and its variants, all replicate when the system 
       is booted with a CTL-ALT-DEL and infect only 5-1/4" 360K diskettes. 
       These viruses do stay in memory through a warm reboot, and will 
       infect both system and non-system disks.  System memory can be 
       infected on a warm boot even if BASIC is loaded instead of DOS. 
 
       The virus saves the real boot sector at track 39, sector 8, head 0. 
       The original version of the Alameda virus would only run on a 
       8086/8088 machine, though later versions can now run on 80286 
       systems. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Alameda are: 
       Alameda 1.2M: Isolated in the United States in April, 1992, 
                    this variant of Alameda is able to infect 1.2M 
                    5.25 inch diskettes in addition to 360K 5.25 inch 
                    diskettes.  The virus will hang computers using 
                    other than an 8088 processor when the system is 
                    booted from an infected diskette.  This virus is 
                    memory resident, allocating 1,024 bytes of memory 
                    at the top of system memory but below the 640K DOS 
                    boundary.  Interrupt 12's return will have been 
                    moved.  It only infects diskettes in the A: drive 
                    when the user performs a CTL-ALT-DEL key combination. 
                    Origin:  United States  April, 1992. 
       Golden Gate: The Alameda virus will a modification so that it 
                    activates when the counter in the virus has determined 
                    that it has infected 500 diskettes.  Upon activation, 
                    the C: drive is formatted.  The counter in the virus 
                    is reset on each new diskette or hard drive infection. 
                    Origin:  California, United States  1988 
       Golden Gate-B: Same as Golden Gate, except that the counter has 
                      changed from 500 to 30 infections before activation, 
                      and only diskettes are infected. 
       Golden Gate-C: Same as Golden Gate-B, except that the hard disk 
                      can also be infected.  This variant is also known as 
                      the Mazatlan virus, and is the most dangerous of the 
                      Alameda family. 
       SF Virus: A modified version of the Alameda virus which 
                 activates when the counter in the virus has determined 
                 that it has infected 100 diskettes.  Upon activation, the 
                 diskette in the floppy drive is reformatted.  The SF 
                 virus only infects 5-1/4" diskettes. 
                 Origin:  California, United States  December, 1987 