Virus Name:  Anthrax 
 Aliases: 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovery:   July, 1990 
 Symptoms:    .COM & .EXE growth 
 Origin:      Bulgaria 
 Isolated:    Netherlands 
 Eff Length:  1040 - 1279 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRAKX - Parasitic Resident .COM, .EXE, & Master Boot Sector 
              Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, AVTK, F-Prot, NAV, Sweep, IBMAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, NAV/N, 
                    AVTK/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  See below 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Anthrax virus was isolated in July 1990 in the Netherlands after 
       it was uploaded onto several BBSs in a Trojan anti-viral program, 
       USCAN.ZIP.  It is the second virus to be found in a copy of UScan 
       during July 1990, the first virus being V2100.  Anthrax is a memory 
       resident generic infector of .COM and .EXE files, including 
       COMMAND.COM. 
 
       The first time a program infected with the Anthrax virus is executed 
 
       on the system's hard disk, the virus will infect the hard disk's 
       master boot sector (partition table).  At this point, the virus 
       is not memory resident.  It will also write a copy of itself on the 
       last few sectors of the system's hard disk.  If data existed on those 
       last few sectors of the hard disk, it will be destroyed. 
 
       When the system is booted from the hard disk, the Anthrax virus will 
       install itself memory resident.  It will remain memory resident 
       until the first program is executed.  At that time, it will 
       de-install itself from being resident and infect one .COM or .EXE 
       file.  This virus does not infect files in the current directory 
       first, but instead starts to infect files at the lowest level of the 
       disk's directory tree. 
 
       Later, when an infected program is executed, Anthrax will infect one 
       .COM or .EXE file, searching the directory structure from the lowest 
       level of the directory tree.  If the executed infected program was 
       located on the floppy drive, a .COM or .EXE file may or may not be 
       infected. 
 
       The Anthrax virus's code is 1,024 bytes long, but infected programs 
       will increase in length by 1,040 to 1,279 bytes.  On the author's 
       test system, the largest increase in length experienced was 1,232 
       bytes.  Infected files will always have an infected file length that 
       is a multiple of 16. 
 
       The following text strings can be found in files infected with the 
       Anthrax virus: 
 
               "(c)Damage, Inc." 
               "ANTHRAX" 
 
       A third text string occurs in the viral code, but it is in the 
       Cyrillic alphabet.  Per Vesselin Bontchev, this third string 
       translates to: 
                "Sofia 1990" 
 
       Since Anthrax infects the hard disk master boot sector, infected 
       systems must have the master boot sector disinfected or rebuilt in 
       order to remove the virus.  This disinfection can be done with 
       either a low-level format or use of the MDisk/P program for the 
       correct DOS version after powering off and rebooting from a 
       write-protected boot diskette for the system.  Any .COM or .EXE 
       files infected with Anthrax must also be disinfected or erased. 
       Since a copy of the virus will exist on the last few sectors of the 
       drive, these must also be located and overwritten. 
 
       Anthrax interacts with another virus: V2100.  If a system which was 
       previously infected with Anthrax should become infected with the 
       V2100 virus, the V2100 virus will check the last few sectors of the 
       hard disk for the spare copy of Anthrax.  If the spare copy is 
       found, then Anthrax will be copied to the hard disk's master boot 
       sector. 
 
       It is not known if Anthrax carries any destructive capabilities or 
       trigger/activation dates. 