Virus Name:  Shhs  
 Aliases:     Sh 
 V Status:    Viron 
 Discovered:  January, 1992 
 Symptoms:    .COM & .EXE programs overwritten; message; disk corruption 
 Origin:      Unknown 
 Eff Length:  585 Bytes 
 Type Code:   ONAK - Non-Resident Overwriting .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, AVTK, F-Prot, Sweep, ChAV, 
                    IBMAV, NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, LProt, Innoc, NProt, IBMAV/N, 
                    AVTK/N, NAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Shhs virus was received in January, 1992 from an unknown 
       origin.  Shhs is a non-resident, direct action infector of .COM 
       and .EXE programs, including COMMAND.COM.  It corrupts the current 
       disk drive when it activates. 
 
       When a program infected with Shhs is executed, the Shhs virus will 
       search the current directory for three uninfected .EXE programs to 
       infect.  If these programs were found, it will infect them.  If 
       no uninfected .EXE programs were found, the virus will then search 
       the current directory for three uninfected .COM files to infect, 
       and infect them if they were found.  If all the .COM and .EXE 
       programs in the current directory were previously infected, the 
       virus will activate (see below).  If the virus doesn't activate, 
       the following message will then be displayed, and the user 
       returned to the DOS prompt: 
 
               "Program too big to fit in memory" 
 
       This message is contained within the virus itself, and is a fake 
       error message. 
 
       Programs infected with the Shhs virus will have the first 585 bytes 
       of the host program overwritten with the Shhs virus code.  Unless 
       the original program was smaller than 585 bytes, there will be no 
       change to the file's size in the DOS disk directory listing. 
       Programs which were originally smaller than 585 bytes will become 
       585 bytes when they are infected by Shhs.  There will be no change 
       to the file's date and time in the DOS disk directory listing. 
 
       Once all of the .COM and .EXE programs in the current directory 
       have been infected with the Shhs virus, the virus will activate 
       when the next infected program is executed.  At that time, the 
       virus will overwrite the first 35 sectors of the current drive, 
       starting at sector 0.  The following message will then be 
       displayed: 
 
               "I'm sorry, Dave... but I'm afraid I can't do that! 
  
                Dedicated to the dudes at SHHS 
                The BOOT SECTOR Infector ..." 
 
       Attempts to access programs on the current drive will then 
       result in Sector not found errors from DOS.  Examination of the 
       boot sector on the current drive with Norton Utilities in 
       maintenance mode will reveal the following text within the boot 
       sector: 
 
               "Killed by: ............." 
 
       The "............." will contain the name of the program which the 
       virus activated from.  For example, if the user ran CHKDSK.COM and 
       the virus activated, the thirteen periods will be replaced by 
       "CHKDSK.COM...". 
 
       The Shhs virus is encrypted, so the above messages cannot be seen 
       in infected files.  Since Shhs overwrites the beginning of the 
       programs it infects, these programs cannot be disinfected, but must 
       be deleted and replaced from non-infected copies.  Once the virus 
       has activated, the disk should be reformatted. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Shhs are: 
       Secret Service: Based on the Shhs virus described above, the 
              Secret Service virus overwrites the first 600 bytes of 
              the .EXE programs it infects.  It infects three .EXE 
              programs in the current directory when an infected program 
              is executed.  Once all of the .EXE programs in the directory 
              have been infected, the next execution of the virus will 
              result in the virus trashing the current drive.  The 
              following text strings are encrypted within the virus: 
              "*.EXE *.COM .. Program too big to fit in memory" 
              "I'm sorry John McAfee (NOT!)..." 
              "Secret Service Virus has arrived..." 
              "Dedicated to all virus makers!" 
              "By: Agent #13/Nuke Member" 
              "Killed by:" 
              Origin:  Canada  August, 1992. 