Virus Name:  Michelangelo 
 Aliases: 
 V Status:    Common 
 Discovered:  April, 1991 
 Symptoms:    Disk directory damage; hard disk format; decrease in total 
              system and available memory 
 Origin:      Sweden or the Netherlands 
 Eff Length:  N/A 
 Type Code:   BRtX - Resident Floppy Boot Sector/Master Boot Sector Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, Sweep, AVTK, NAV, 
                    IBMAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV 
 Removal Instructions:  F-Prot or M-Disk/P 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Michelangelo virus was first reported in April, 1991 in Sweden 
       and the Netherlands.  The first usable sample of this virus was 
       actually received in June, 1991.  Michelangelo is a memory resident 
       infector of diskette boot sectors and the hard disk master boot 
       sector (partition table).  It is roughly based on the Stoned virus, 
       though very different in its behavior. 
 
       The Michelangelo virus becomes memory resident the first time the 
       system is attempted to be booted with a Michelangelo infected disk. 
       Regardless of whether this boot is successful, Michelangelo will 
       become memory resident.  Total system and available free memory, as 
       measured by the DOS CHKDSK program will typically decrease by 
       2,048 bytes.  Michelangelo will be resident at the top of system 
       memory but below the 640K DOS boundary. Interrupt 12's return will 
       be moved to insure that Michelangelo in memory is not overwritten. 
 
       Once Michaelangelo is memory resident, it will infect diskette boot 
       sectors as they are accessed.  It will also infect the hard disk 
       master boot sector when the user attempts to access a file on the 
       hard disk. 
 
       On 360K 5.25" diskettes, the original boot sector will be moved by 
       the virus to sector 11, the last sector in the root directory.  On 
       1.2M 5.25" diskettes, the original boot sector will be relocated to 
       sector 28, part of the root directory.  Since the original boot 
       sector now resides in the root directory, any entries which happened 
       to be in the overwritten sector of the root directory will be lost. 
 
       Master boot sector infections will result in the original master boot 
       sector having been moved to Side 0, Cylinder 0, Sector 7 on the 
       hard disk. 
 
       Michelangelo activates on March 6, at which time it will format the 
       system hard disk by overwriting it with random characters from 
       system memory. 
 
       See:   Stoned 