Virus Name:  Murphy 
 Aliases:     Murphy-1, V1277, Stealth Virus 
 V Status:    Common - Bulgaria 
 Discovered:  April, 1990 
 Symptoms:    .COM & .EXE growth; system hangs; speaker noise; possible 
              bouncing ball effect (see Murphy-2 below) 
 Origin:      Sofia, Bulgaria 
 Eff Length:  1,277 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRA - Parasitic Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, NAV, AVTK, Sweep, 
                    IBMAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  NAV, or delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Murphy virus was isolated in Bulgaria in April, 1990.  It is a 
       memory resident generic .COM & .EXE infector, and will infect 
       COMMAND.COM. 
 
       The first time an infected program is executed on a system, the 
       virus installs itself memory resident.  After it is memory 
       resident, if a file is executed, or opened for any reason, it is 
       infected by the Murphy virus.  When the first non-infected program 
       is executed with the virus in memory, the virus will attempt to 
       infect COMMAND. COM.  The program being executed will also be 
       infected at that time.  Infected programs will increase in length 
       by 1,277 Bytes.  Programs which are less than 1,277 Bytes in length 
       will not be infected. 
 
       The Murphy virus watches the system time.  When the system time is 
       between 10AM and 11AM, the virus will turn on the system speaker 
       and send a 61h to it.  At any other time, the virus will not 
       attempt to use the system speaker. 
 
       The following text message is contained within the Murphy virus, 
       giving an idea of when it was written and by whom, though they are 
       not displayed: 
 
            "Hello, I'm Murphy.  Nice to meet you friend. 
             I'm written since Nov/Dec. 
             Copywrite (c)1989 by Lubo & Ian, Sofia, USM Laboratory." 
 
       Systems infected by the Murphy virus may also experience system 
       hangs when the virus attempts to infect .EXE files. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Murphy are: 
       AntiChrist: Based on the Murphy virus, AntiChrist is a memory 
                 resident infector of .EXE programs.  It becomes memory 
                 resident at the top of system memory, but below the 640K 
                 DOS boundary.  Total system and available free memory, as 
                 indicated by the DOS CHKDSK program, will have decreased 
                 by 1,040 bytes.  Interrupt 21 will be hooked.  AntiChrist 
                 infects .EXE programs larger than 1K in length when they 
                 are executed or opened.  Infected programs will have a 
                 file length increase of 1,008 bytes with the virus being 
                 located at the end of the file.  There will be no change 
                 to the program's date and time in the DOS disk directory 
                 listing.  This virus is considered a research virus, and 
                 was not in the public domain at the time it was submitted. 
                 Origin: Italy   March, 1991. 
       Brothers: Based on the Murphy virus, Brothers is a memory 
                 resident infector of .COM and .EXE programs, and should 
                 be considered a stealth virus.  It does not infect 
                 COMMAND.COM.  It becomes memory resident at the top of 
                 system memory, but below the 640K DOS boundary.  Total 
                 system and available free memory, as indicated by the DOS 
                 CHKDSK program, will have decreased by 2,064 bytes. 
                 Interrupts 21 and 22 will be hooked.  Brothers infects 
                 .COM and .EXE programs when they are executed or opened. 
                 Infected programs will have a file length increase of 2,045 
                 bytes with the virus being located at the end of the file. 
                 The file length increase will not be visible if the virus 
                 is memory resident, though uninfected programs will appear 
                 in the DOS disk directoy as being 63,491 bytes larger. 
                 Text strings found within infected programs are: 
                 "Brothers in arm.Copyright (C) 1990. V 1.0" 
                 ":*.EXE" 
                 "????????EXE" 
                 Execution of the DOS CHKDSK program with Brothers memory 
                 resident will result in file allocation errors being 
                 detected on all infected programs. 
                 Origin: Europe   November, 1991. 
       Cemetery: Cemetery is a 1,417 byte variant of Italian Pest. 
                 When Cemetery is memory resident, total system and 
                 available free memory will decrease by 1,440 bytes. 
                 Once memory resident, it will infect .EXE programs as 
                 well as COMMAND.COM when they are opened or executed. 
                 .COM programs other than COMMAND.COM are not infected. 
                 Infected programs will increase in length by 1,417 
                 bytes with the virus being located at the end of the 
                 infected file.  One text string can be found in 
                 Cemetery infected programs: "CEMETERY".  It is 
                 unknown what Cemetery does when it activates. 
       Delyrium: Delyrium is an 1,778 byte variant of Italian Pest. 
                 When Delyrium is memory resident, total system and 
                 available free memory will decrease by 1,808 bytes, 
                 hooking interrupt 21. .COM and .EXE programs are infected 
                 when they are executed or opened for any reason.  Infected 
                 programs will increase in size by 1,778 bytes with Delyrium 
                 being located at the end of the infected file.  Programs 
                 infected with Delyrium will contain the following text 
                 strings: 
                 "(c) IVRL 1991 (Ivrl Head Quarter, Milan Italy)" 
                 "Delyrium Virus - Created by Cracker Jack 1991" 
                 "Copyright by Italian Virus Research Laboratory 1991" 
                 ".....because the dead is not so far" 
                 "....and the horror will be with you" 
                 It is unknown what Delyrium does when it activates, but 
                 infected systems may experience difficulties with the 
                 DOS COPY command and executing programs from the B: drive. 
                 Origin:  Italy  1991. 
       Diabolik: Diabolik is an 1,171 byte variant of Italian Pest. 
                 When Diabolik is memory resident, total system and 
                 available free memory will decrease by 1,200 bytes. 
                 .EXE programs are infected when they are executed. 
                 Infected programs will increase in size by 1,171 bytes 
                 with Diabolik being located at the end of the infected 
                 file.  Programs infected with Diabolik will contain the 
                 following text strings: 
                  "Diabolik Ltd.   (C) 1991 by Odrowad" 
                  "Trow" 
                 It is unknown what Diabolik does when it activates. 
       Erasmus: Based on the Murphy virus, Erasmus is a memory resident 
                 infector of .COM and .EXE programs.  It does not infect 
                 COMMAND.COM.  It becomes memory resident at the top of 
                 system memory, but below the 640K DOS boundary.  Total 
                 system and available free memory, as indicated by the DOS 
                 CHKDSK program, will have decreased by 1,712 bytes. 
                 Interrupt 21 will be hooked.  Erasmus infects .COM and 
                 .EXE programs when they are executed. Infected programs 
                 will have a file length increase of 1,682 bytes with the 
                 virus being located at the end of the file.  The following 
                 text strings will be found in Erasmus infected programs: 
                 "C.J.'91" 
                 "Gli Dei si mostreranno a gli uomini, 
                  Quando essi saranno autori di grande conflitto 
                  Prima il Cielo visto sara con spada e lancia, 
                  Che verso la mano sinistra portera piu grande afflizione. 
                  Alla rivoluzione del grande numero sette, 
                  Apparira ai tempi giochi d'Ecatombe, 
                  Non lontano dalla grande eta del millennio 
                  Coloro che entrarono usciranno dalle loro tombe. 
                  Saint-Remi, 14 dicembre 1533" 
                 Systems infected with Erasmus may experience what appears 
                 to be warm reboots upon execution of some anti-viral 
                 programs.  These "reboots" are actually the in memory 
                 copy of COMMAND.COM being reloaded, and then the 
                 AUTOEXEC.BAT file being executed. 
                 Origin: Italy   May, 1991. 
       Finger: Finger is an 1,172 byte variant of Italian Pest.  When 
                 Finger is memory resident, total system and available free 
                 memory will have decreased by 1,200 bytes.  Infected .EXE 
                 programs will increase in size by 1,172 bytes with the 
                 virus being located at the end of infected file.  .EXE 
                 programs will be infected when they are either opened or 
                 executed.  Finger activates on Saturdays, at which time the 
                 message indicated below will be displayed when an infected 
                 program is executed, followed by a system hang: 
                  "Cannot remember what I was doing!! 
                   Insert fingers in ears and reboot please" 
                 Attempts to reboot will result in a "Diskette read failure" 
                 due to the virus having damaged the first 12 sectors of the 
                 diskette or hard disk. 
       Goblin: Based on the Smack variant, Goblin is a memory resident 
                 infector of .COM and .EXE programs, but not COMMAND.COM. 
                 It's size in memory is 1,968 bytes, and hooks interrupt 21. 
                 Goblin infects .COM and .EXE programs over 2K in size when 
                 they are executed or opened.  Infected programs will have a 
                 file length increase of 1,951 bytes with the virus being 
                 located at the end of the file.  Systems infected with 
                 Goblin activates on Friday, at which time execution of an 
                 infected program will result in the display of a message 
                 and deletion of the first program in the current directory. 
                 If the program executed is a .COM program, the displayed 
                 message will be: 
                 "What a horrible program, i wish not execute it!" 
                 If the program executed is an .EXE program, the displayed 
                 message will be: 
                 "Goblin the Black Death  (c) by Cracker Jack IVRL '91" 
                 Besides the above messages, the following text strings can 
                 found in Goblin infected programs: 
                 "(c) by Cracker Jack 1991 Italian Virus Research Laboratory" 
                 "Patricia does not function correctly, 
                  because I haven't run it before send. 
                  Now I'm debugging it...ehehehehehehahahahahahah" 
                 "Smack Virus....what a horrible name!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!" 
                 "Compliments to the Dark Avenger for the nice viruses... 
                  excuse me if I create some variants of your beautiful 
                  viruses..." 
                 "Viruses are a nice thing!!" 
                 "I'm hungry!! Why don't you buy me a Cheesburger??" 
                 Origin: Italy   May, 1991. 
       HIV: Based on the Murphy virus, HIV is a memory resident infector 
                 of .COM and .EXE programs, including COMMAND.COM.  It 
                 becomes memory resident at the top of system memory, but 
                 below the 640K DOS boundary.  Total system and available 
                 free memory, as indicated by the DOS CHKDSK program, will 
                 have decreased by 1,632 bytes.  Interrupt 21 will be 
                 hooked.  HIV infects .COM and .EXE programs when they are 
                 executed or opened. Infected programs will have a file 
                 length increase of 1,614 bytes with the virus being located 
                 at the end of the file.  The following text strings will be 
                 found in HIV infected programs: 
                 "HIV Virus - Release 1.0 
                  Created by Cracker Jack 
                  (C) 1991 Italian Virus Laboratory" 
                 Origin: Italy   March, 1991. 
       Italian Pest: Based on the Migram variant, Italian Pest is a 
                 memory resident infector of .EXE programs.  It becomes 
                 memory resident at the top of system memory, but below the 
                 640K DOS boundary.  Total system and available free memory, 
                 as indicated by the DOS CHKDSK program, will have decreased 
                 by approximately 1.9K.  Interrupt 21 will be hooked. 
                 Italian Pest may infect .EXE programs over 2,048 bytes in 
                 length when they are executed, though it does not always 
                 infect them.  Infected programs will have a file length 
                 increase of 1,910 bytes with the virus being located at the 
                 end of the file.  There will be no change to the program's 
                 date and time in the DOS disk directory listing.  When 
                 Italian Pest is in memory, attempts to execute .COM 
                 programs will result in the following message being 
                 displayed and the program not executing: 
                 "I'm hungry!! Why don't you buy me a Cheesburger??" 
                 Italian Pest activates on Fridays, at which time execution 
                 of an infected program will result in the following message 
                 being displayed: 
                 "Your PC is infected with the Intergalactic Pest!" 
                 The first .COM program in the current directory will have 
                 been deleted, and the C: drive boot sector and first file 
                 allocation table corrupted.  Besides the above two 
                 messages, the following text can be found in all infected 
                 programs: 
                 "*.COM" 
                 "(c) by Cracker Jack 1991 
                  Italian Virus Research Laboratory 
                  Created,Developed and Written by Cracker Jack, 
                  All rights reserved 
                  Con questo virus dichiaro guerra a tutti i POVERI 
                  (ahhh quanto sono poveri!) 
                  cosiddetti 'Virus Researchers' del globo... 
                  provate a prendermi..ahahahah 
                  I'IVRL e'forte.....vincera!!!! 
                  Virus Writers di tutte le nazioni...uniamci!" 
                  Origin: Italy   May, 1991. 
       Kamasya: Kamasya is a 1,098 byte variant of the Italian Pest  
                 variant.  It is a memory resident infector of .EXE 
                 programs.  It's size in memory is 1,120 bytes, and it hooks 
                 interrupt 21.  Kamasya infects .EXE programs when they are 
                 executed or opened.  Infected programs will increase in 
                 size by 1,098 bytes with the virus being located at the end 
                 of infected file.  Kamasya activates on Tuesdays, at which 
                 time the message indicated below will be displayed when an 
                 infected program is executed: 
                 "Kamasya nendriya pritir 
                  labho jiveta yavata 
                  jivasya tattva jijnasa 
                  nartho yas ceha karmabhih" 
                 Origin: Italy   March, 1991. 
       Locker: Locker is a 1,642 byte variant of the Murphy virus.  It 
                 is a memory resident infector of .COM &.EXE programs, but 
                 not COMMAND.COM.  It's size in memory is 1,644 bytes, 
                 hooking interrupt 21.  Locker infects programs when they 
                 are executed.  Infected programs will increase in size by 
                 1,642 bytes with the virus being located at the end of 
                 the file.  The program's date and time in the DOS disk 
                 directory listing will not be altered.  The following text 
                 strings can be found within the viral code in infected 
                 programs: 
                 "(c) IVRL 1991 (Ivrl Head Quarter, Milan Italy)" 
                 "all rights reserved!!!" 
                 "[0mPassword ->" 
                 "[0mPassword accepted!" 
                 "Incorrect Password, sorry!" 
                 "Locker Viri - Created by Cracker Jack 1991" 
                 Origin: Italy   March, 1993. 
       Migram: Migram is a 1,221 byte variant of the Murphy virus.  It 
                 is a memory resident infector of .EXE programs.  It's size 
                 in memory is 1,248 bytes, and it hooks interrupt 21. 
                 Migram infects .EXE programs over 1K in size when they are 
                 executed or opened.  Infected programs will increase in 
                 size by 1,221 bytes with the virus being located at the end 
                 of infected file.  Migram activates on Saturdays, at which 
                 time the message indicated below will be displayed when an 
                 infected program is executed: 
                 "MIGRAM VIRUS 1.0 
                  (C) 1991 IVL" 
                 The display of the message is followed with a system hang. 
                 Origin: Italy   March, 1991. 
       Murphy-2: (V1521) Similar to the Murphy virus, its length is 1,521 
                 bytes.  The non-displayed messages in the virus are now: 
                 "It's me - Murphy. 
                  Copywrite (c)1990 by Lubo & Ian, Sofia, USM Laboratory." 
                 The Murphy-2 will infect any .EXE file, as well as any 
                 .COM file over 900 Bytes.  Instead of turning the system 
                 speaker on between 10AM and 11AM, this variant waits for 
                 the system time to have the minutes set to 00, then it 
                 may have a "bouncing ball" effect similar to several 
                 other viruses. This effect does not, however, occur on 
                 all systems. 
       Murphy-3: Murphy-3 is a 1,284 byte variant of the Murphy virus. 
                 The major difference between Murphy and this variant is 
                 that COMMAND.COM will be infected only if it is executed 
                 or opened.  The virus no longer automatically infects it. 
                 Programs infected with Murphy-3 will increase in length 
                 by 1,284 bytes with the virus being located at the end of 
                 the infected program.  Activation is the same as the 
                 original virus described above, except that a low buzzing 
                 sound will be emitted along with the clicks.  The messages 
                 in the original Murphy virus appear in this variant. 
                 Origin: Bulgaria   May 1991. 
       Murphy-4: Murphy-4 is similar to the Murphy-2 virus, this 
                 variant is 1,480 bytes long.  It will infect any program 
                 larger than approximately 2,000 bytes when it is executed 
                 or opened.  Murphy-4 will be resident at the top of system 
                 memory but below the 640K DOS boundary.  Total system and 
                 available free memory will decrease by 1,504 bytes, as 
                 indicated by the DOS CHKDSK program.  Murphy-4 activates 
                 in the same manner as Murphy-2, and contains the same 
                 text messages. 
                 Origin: Bulgaria   May 1991.   
       Smack: Based on the Italian Pest variant, Smack is a memory 
                 resident infector of .COM and .EXE programs, but not 
                 COMMAND.COM.  It's size in memory is 1,856 bytes, and 
                 hooks interrupt 21.  Smack infects .COM and .EXE programs 
                 over 3K in length when they are executed.  Infected 
                 programs will have a file length increase of 1,835 bytes 
                 with the virus being located at the end of the file.  There 
                 will be no change to the program's date and time in the DOS 
                 disk directory listing.  Systems infected with Smack will 
                 experience the occasional disappearance of both programs 
                 and data files when infected programs are executed. 
                 Infected systems will also notice a gradual increase in 
                 lost clusters on the system hard disk and diskettes. 
                 Smack activates on Fridays when infected .EXE programs are 
                 executed.  It may then display the following message: 
                 "Is today Friday? (Y/N)" 
                 Replying "Y" will result in the following message and the 
                 program being terminated: 
                 "Sorry but on Friday I wish not work!!" 
                 Replying "N" will result in the following message, though 
                 the threatened FAT damage does not occur due to a bug in 
                 the virus: 
                "You are untruthful!! For punishment I format your HD FAT!!" 
                 Other text strings located in the Smack virus are: 
                 "This virus was written in Italy by Cracker Jack 1991 IVRL" 
                 "All rights reserved, please don't crack this virus!!" 
                 "Special message to Patricia Hoffman: I love you!!!!!!!!" 
                 "SmackSmack" 
                 "Can you give me your telephone number??? Ciao bellissima!" 
                 Origin: Italy   May, 1991. 
       Swami: The Swami virus was submitted in May, 1991, from a United 
              States source.  Its origin is unknown.  It is a variant of 
              Murphy and will be detected as Murphy by some anti-viral 
              utilities.  Unlike Murphy, this variant does not infect 
              COMMAND.COM.  Swami infected files will have a file length 
              increase of 1,250 bytes. It will infect programs when they 
              are executed, opened, or copied.  Infected files will 
              contain the following text string: 
                 "Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada (1896 - 1977)" 
              Swami activates on April 15, when it will delete the first 
              .EXE file in the current directory when the virus becomes 
              memory resident. 
 
       See:   Tormentor       Tormentor-1072 