Virus Name:  Liberty-2 
 Aliases:     Liberty-2A, Liberty-2B, Liberty-2C 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  September, 1991 
 Symptoms:    .COM, .EXE, and .OVL growth; BSC; file date and time changes; 
              decrease in total system and available free memory 
 Origin:      Sydney, Australia 
 Eff Length:  2,869 - 2,883 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRfAK - Parasitic Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, NAV, AVTK, Sweep, 
                    IBMAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 General Comments: 
       The Liberty-2 virus is actually a group of three viruses which 
       appear to be earlier versions of the Liberty virus described in the 
       preceding entry.  Liberty-2 is a memory resident generic file 
       infector, infecting .COM, .EXE, and overlay files.  COMMAND.COM may 
       also become infected.  In advanced infections, the virus may also 
       infect boot sectors. 
 
       The Liberty-2 virus gets its name from the text string "Liberty" 
       which will appear in all infected files.  In .EXE files, it will be 
       located in the last 3K of the file.  In .COM files, it will appear 
       near the very beginning of the program, as well as within the last 
       3K of the infected file. 
 
       The first time a file infected with the Liberty-2 virus is executed, 
       the virus will become memory resident.  Liberty-2 installs itself 
       resident in high free memory, resulting in a decrease of 8,512 
       bytes of available free memory and total system memory.  It hooks 
       interrupts 21 and 24, as well as interrupt 67.  
 
       After becoming memory resident, programs which are executed may be 
       infected by the virus.  All .EXE files will be infected, but only 
       .COM files over 2K in length will become infected.  Overlay files 
       will also become infected.  Infected files will increase in size 
       between 2,869 and 2,883 bytes.  The main body of the virus will be 
       located at the end of all infected files.  Programs infected with 
       Liberty-2 will also have had their file date and time in the 
       DOS disk directory change to reflect the current system date and 
       time when infection occurred. 
 
       Infected .COM files can also be identified by the following text 
       string which will appear near the beginning of the infected program: 
 
               "- M Y S T I C - COPYRIGHT (C) 1989-2000, by SsAsMsUsEsL" 
 
       This string does not appear in infected .EXE files, the area where 
       this string would have appeared in infected .EXE files will be 00h 
       characters. 
 
       The following text string also appears in all Liberty-2 infected 
       files, though it is much longer than indicated here: 
 
               "MAGICMAGICMAGICMAGICMAGICMAGICMAGICMAGICMAGICMAGIC" 
 
       Liberty-2 is a self-encrypting virus.  It is not yet known if it is 
       destructive. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Liberty are: 
       Liberty-2B: Functionally equivalent to Liberty-2, this variant 
                   has two bytes which differ from the Liberty-2 virus 
                   described above. 
       Liberty-2C: Functionally equivalent to Liberty-2, this variant 
                   has six bytes which differ from both the Liberty-2 and 
                   Liberty-2B viruses described above. 
       Liberty.2867: Received in July, 1994, this variant is another 
                   minor variant of the Liberty-2 virus. 
                   Origin:  Unknown  July, 1994. 
 
       See:   Liberty 