Virus Name:  4096 
 Aliases:     FroDo 
 V Status:    Common 
 Discovery:   January, 1990 
 Symptoms:    .COM, .EXE, & overlay file growth; TSR hides growth; 
              crosslinks; corruption of data files 
 Origin:      Israel 
 Eff Length:  4,096 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRsA - Parasitic Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, AVTK, NAV, Sweep, IBMAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NShld, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions: F-Prot, NAV or delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The 4096 virus was first isolated in January, 1990.  This virus is 
       considered a stealth virus in that it is almost invisible to the 
       system user. 
 
       The 4096 virus infects .COM, .EXE, and Overlay files, adding 4,096 
       bytes to their length.  Once the virus is resident in system memory, 
       the increase in length will not appear in a directory listing.  Once 
       this virus has installed itself into memory, it will infect any 
       executable file that is opened, including if it is opened with the 
       COPY or XCOPY command. 
 
       This virus is destructive to both data files and executable files, 
       as it very slowly cross-links files on the system's disk.  The 
       cross-linking occurs so slowly that it appears there is a hardware 
       problem, the virus being almost invisible.  The cross-linking of 
       files is the result of the virus manipulating the FATs, changing the 
       number of available sectors, as well as the user issuing CHKDSK/F 
       command which will think that the files have lost sectors or 
       cross-linking if the virus is in memory. 
 
       As a side note, if the virus is present in memory and you attempt to 
       copy infected files, the new copy of the file will not be infected 
       with the virus if the new copy does not have an executable file 
       extension.  Thus, one way to disinfect a system is to copy off all 
       the infected files to diskettes with a non-executable file extension 
       (i.e., don't use .EXE, .COM, .SYS, etc.) while the virus is active in 
       memory, then power off the system and reboot from a write-protected, 
       uninfected system disk. Once rebooted and the virus is not in 
       memory, delete the infected files and copy back the files from the 
       diskettes to the original executable file names and extensions. 
 
       The above will disinfect the system, if done correctly, but will 
       still leave the problem of cross-linked files which are permanently 
       damaged. 
 
       On or after September 22 of any year, the 4096 virus will hang 
       infected systems.  This appears to be a "bug" in the virus in that 
       it goes into a time consuming loop. 
 
       The 4096 virus also contains a boot-sector within its code; however, 
       it is never written out to the disk's boot sector.  Moving this boot 
       sector to the boot sector of a diskette and rebooting the system 
       will result in the message "FRODO LIVES" being displayed. September 
       22 is Bilbo and Frodo Baggin's birthday in the Lord of the Rings 
       trilogy. 
 
       An important note on the 4096 virus: this virus will also infect 
       some data files.  When this occurs, the data files will appear to be 
       fine on infected systems.  However, after the system is later 
       disinfected, these files will now be corrupted and unpredictable 
       results may occur. 
 
       Known variant(s) of 4096 are: 
       4096-B: Similar to the 4096 virus, the main change is that the 
               encryption mechanism has been changed in order to avoid 
               detection. 
       4096-C: Isolated in January, 1991, this variant of 4096 is similar 
               to the original virus.  The major difference is that the DOS 
               CHKDSK command will not show any cross-linking of files or 
               lost clusters.  A symptom of infection by this variant is 
               that the disk space available according to a DIR command 
               will be more than the disk space available according to the 
               DOS CHKDSK program. 
       4096-D: Isolated in April, 1992, this variant of 4096 is similar 
               to the 4096-C variant in behavior.  The major difference is 
               that it has been modified to avoid detection by some anti- 
               viral utilities. 
               Origin:  Unknown  April, 1992. 
       4096-E: Received in October, 1992, this variant of 4096 is similar 
               to the 4096-C variant in behavior.  The major difference is 
               that it has been modified to avoid detection by most anti- 
               viral utilities.  Its size in memory is 5,648 bytes. 
               Origin:  Unknown  October, 1992.