Virus Name:  Bad Brain 
 Aliases:     BB 
 V Status:    Viron 
 Discovery:   April, 1992 
 Symptoms:    .COM file corruption; programs fail to execute 
 Origin:      Unknown 
 Eff Length:  576 Bytes 
 Type Code:   ONCK - Overwriting Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, AVTK, F-Prot, IBMAV, Sweep, 
                    NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, LProt, Innoc, AVTK/N, IBMAV/N, 
                    NAV/N, NProt 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Bad Brain virus was received in April, 1992.  Its origin is 
       unknown.  Bad Brain is a non-resident direct action infector 
       of .COM programs, including COMMAND.COM.  It corrupts all programs 
       which it infects. 
 
       When a program infected with Bad Brain is executed, the Bad 
       Brain virus will infect one .COM program located on the current 
       drive in the 2nd or lower subdirectory from the drive's root 
       directory.  Programs which have been infected with the Bad Brain 
       virus will have the first 576 bytes of their code overwritten with 
       the viral code, so there will be no change in the file's length 
       in the DOS disk directory listing.  The file's date and time in 
       the DOS disk directory will not have been altered. 
 
       The following text strings are encrypted within the Bad Brain 
       viral code, and thus are not visible in infected files: 
 
               "SKISM*" 
               "*.COM" 
               "BadBrains" 
 
       Programs infected with the Bad Brain virus will not function 
       properly when the user attempts to execute them.  The user will be 
       returned to the DOS prompt upon execution. 
 
       Since the Bad Brain virus overwrites the beginning of the host 
       program, infected programs cannot be disinfected and should be 
       replaced with clean backup copies. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Bad Brain are: 
       Bad Brain 1.2: Received in August, 1993, Bad Brain 1.2 is a 
                 554 byte variant of the virus described above.  Infected 
                 programs will have the first 554 bytes overwritten by the 
                 virus.  The following text is visible within the viral code 
                 in all Bad Brain 1.2 infected programs: 
                 "The Thing That Should Not Be" 
                 "He searches" 
                 "Hunters of the shadow is rising" 
                 "Crawling chaos, underground," 
                 "out from ruins once possessed" 
                 "Fallen city, living death..." 
                 "* *.COM \" 
                 "Metal Militia / Immortal Riot" 
                 Origin:  Unknown  August, 1993. 