 Virus Name:  Traceback 
 Aliases:     3066, TB 
 V Status:    Extinct 
 Discovered:  October, 1988 
 Symptoms:    .COM & .EXE growth; TSR; graphic display 1 hour after boot 
 Origin: 
 Eff Length:  3,066 bytes 
 Type Code:   PRsA - Parasitic Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, AVTK, NAV, Sweep, IBMAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  F-Prot, NAV, or delete infected files 
 General Comments: 
       The Traceback virus infects both .COM and .EXE files, adding 3,066 
       bytes to the length of the file.  After an infected program is 
       executed, it will install itself memory resident and infect other 
       programs that are opened.  Additionally, if the system date is 
       after December 5, 1988, it will attempt to infect one additional 
       .COM or .EXE file in the current directory.  If an uninfected file 
       doesn't exist in the current directory, it will search the entire 
       disk, starting at the root directory, looking for a candidate. 
       This search process terminates if it encounters an infected file 
       before finding a candidate non-infected file. 
 
       This virus derives its name from two characteristics.  First, 
       infected files contain the directory path of the file causing the 
       infection within the viral code, thus is it possible to "trace 
       back" the infection through a number of files.  Second, when it 
       succeeds in infected another file, the virus will attempt to access 
       the on-disk copy of the program that the copy of the virus in 
       memory was loaded from so that it can update a counter in the 
       virus.  The virus takes over disk error handling while trying to 
       update the original infected program, so if it can't infect it, the 
       user will be unaware that an error occurred. 
 
       The primary symptom of the Traceback virus having infected the 
       system is that if the system date is after December 28, 1988, the 
       memory resident virus will produce a screen display with a 
       cascading effect similar to the Cascade (1701/1704) virus.  The 
       cascading display occurs one hour after system memory is infected. 
       If a keystroke is entered from the keyboard during this display, 
       a system lockup will occur.  After one minute, the display will 
       restore itself, with the characters returning to their original 
       positions.  This cascade and restore display are repeated by the 
       virus at one hour intervals. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Traceback are: 
       Traceback-B: Similar to the Traceback virus, the major differences 
                    are that Traceback-B will infect COMMAND.COM and there 
                    is no cascading display effect after the virus has 
                    been resident for one hour.  Infected files will 
                    also not contain the name of the file from which the 
                    virus originally became memory resident, but instead 
                    the name of the current file.  A text string: 
                    "MICRODIC MSG" can be found in files infected with 
                    Traceback-B.  If the system is booted from a diskette 
                    whose copy of COMMAND.COM is infected, attempting to 
                    execute any program will result in a memory allocation 
                    error and the system being halted. 
                    Origin: Spain, March 1990. 
       Traceback-B2: Similar to Traceback-B2, this variant has the 
                     cascading display effect after the virus has been 
                     resident in memory for one (1) hour.  The text string 
                     " XPO DAD    " replaces the "MICRODIS MSG" text 
                     string in Traceback-B. 
                     Origin: Spain, May 1990. 
 
       See:   Spanish   Traceback 3029   Traceback II 