Virus Name:  Trigger 
 Aliases:    
 V Status:    New 
 Discovered:  June, 1993 
 Symptoms:    .COM & .EXE growth; possible beeping from system speaker; 
              decrease in total system and available free memory 
 Origin:      United States 
 Eff Length:  2,520 - 2,696 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRtAK - Parasitic Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  Sweep, AVTK, NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, ViruScan, ChAV, 
                    PCScan, 
                    Sweep/N, AVTK/N, NShld, Innoc, NAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Trigger virus was received in June, 1993, and is from the 
       Phalcon/Skism virus writting group in the United States.  Trigger 
       is a memory resident infector of .COM and .EXE programs, including 
       COMMAND.COM.  It is more or less a prototype virus which uses the 
       Dark Angel Multiple Encryptor engine for its encryption, thus 
       making it a polymorphic virus.  It is the first virus to use this 
       engine. 
 
       When the first Trigger infected program is executed, the Trigger 
       virus will install itself memory resident at the top of system 
       memory but below the 640K DOS boundary, moving interrupt 12's return. 
       Total system and available free memory, as indicated by the DOS 
       CHKDSK program, will have decreased by 6,144 bytes.  Interrupt 01 
       will be directly hooked by the virus in memory, as well as interrupt 
       21.  The hooking of interrupt 21 is accomplished using a tunnelling 
       technique, so memory mapping utilities will not map it to the virus 
       in memory. 
 
       Once the Trigger virus is memory resident, it will infect .COM and 
       .EXE programs when they are executed, occassionally accompanied by 
       beeping on the system speaker.  Infected programs will have a file 
       length increase of 2,520 to 2,696 bytes with the virus being 
       located at the end of the program.  The file's date and time in the 
       DOS disk directory listing will not be altered.  The following 
       text strings are encrypted within the Trigger viral code: 
 
               "Trigger by Dark Angel of Phalcon/Skism" 
               "Utilising Dark Angel's Multiple Encryptor (DAME)" 
 
       Trigger doesn't appear to do anything besides replicate.