Virus Name:  334 
 Aliases:     Made 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovery:   May, 1992 
 Symptoms:    .COM file growth; file date/time change 
 Origin:      England 
 Eff Length:  334 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PNCK - Parasitic Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, Sweep, IBMAV, AVTK, NAVDX, 
                    NAV, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, LProt, NAV/N, 
                    IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The 334 virus was submitted in May, 1992.  It is originally from 
       England.  This virus is a non-resident direct action infector of 
       .COM programs, including COMMAND.COM. 
 
       When a program infected with the 334 virus is executed, the 334 virus 
       will check the first three .COM programs in the current directory to 
       see if they are infected.  When it finds the first uninfected of 
       these three .COM files, it will infect it.  Once the virus has 
       completed this process, the program the user was attempting to 
       execute will run. 
 
       Programs infected with the 334 virus will have a file length increase 
       of 334 bytes with the virus being located at the end of the infected 
       file.  The program's date and time in the DOS disk directory listing 
       will have been updated to the system date and time when infection 
       occurred.  No text strings are visible within the viral code in 
       infected programs. 
 
       The 334 virus doesn't appear to do anything besides replicate. 
 
       Known variant(s) of 334 are: 
       334-B: Based on the 334 virus described above, this variant is 
              very similar.  It infects one .COM file in the current 
              directory when an infected program is executed, though it 
              does not infect .COM files past the first five in the 
              current directory.  Infected programs will have a file length 
              increase of 334 bytes with the virus being located at the end 
              of the file.  The file's date and time in the DOS disk 
              directory listing will have been updated to the current 
              system date and time when infection occurred.  The following 
              text is encrypted within the viral code: 
              "Made in England" 
              "*.COM" 
              Origin:  England  December, 1992. 
       334-C: Based on the 334 virus described above, this is another 
              very minor variant.  It contains the following encrypted 
              text strings: 
              "Made in England" 
              "*.COM M" 
              Origin:  England  May, 1993. 