Virus Name:  Ambulance Car 
 Aliases:     Ambulance, RedX 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovery:   June, 1990 
 Symptoms:    .COM growth; graphic display & sound 
 Origin:      West Germany 
 Eff Length:  796 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PNCK - Parasitic Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, NAV, AVTK, Sweep, IBMAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  NAV, or delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Ambulance Car virus was isolated in West Germany in June, 1990. 
       This virus is a non-resident .COM infector. 
 
       When a program infected with the Ambulance Car virus is executed, 
       the virus will attempt to infect one .COM file.  The .COM file to be 
       infected will be located on the C: drive.  This virus only infects 
       one .COM file in any directory, and never the first .COM file in the 
       directory.  It avoids infecting COMMAND.COM as that file is normally 
       the first .COM file in the root directory. 
 
       On a random basis, when an infected file is executed it will have 
       the effect of a graphics display of an ASCII block drawing of an 
       ambulance moving across the bottom of the system display.  This 
       graphics display will be accompanied with the sound of a siren 
       played on the system's speaker.  Both of these effects only occur on 
       systems with a graphics capable display adapter. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Ambulance Car are: 
       Ambulance.795: Received in July, 1995, this is a 795 byte variant 
           of the Ambulance Car virus described above.  It may infected two 
           .COM files located in the current directory when an infected 
           program is executed.  Infected programs will have a file length 
           increase of 795 bytes with the virus being located at the end of 
           the file.  The program's date and time in the DOS disk directory 
           listing will not be altered.  No text strings are visible within 
           the viral code.  This variant will also occassionally produce 
           the ambulance graphic moving across the screen when an infected 
           program is executed. 
           Origin:  Unknown  July, 1995. 
       Ambulance Car-B: Similar to the original Ambulance Car, this 
                 variant will infect zero, one, or two .COM program(s) on 
                 the current drive each time an infected program is 
                 executed.  Infected programs will have a file length 
                 increase of 796 bytes with the virus being located at 
                 the end of the infected file.  There are seven bytes 
                 which differ between this variant and the RedX-Any 
                 variant listed below. 
                 Origin:  Unknown  April, 1992. 
       RedX-Any: Based on the original Ambulance Car, this variant has 
                 been altered so that the Ambulance Car graphic appears 
                 with its accompaning siren each time an infected program 
                 is executed.  It infects one .COM file located on the 
                 system path each time an infected program is executed, 
                 and may infect COMMAND.COM. 
                 Origin:  Unknown  January, 1992. 
 
       See:   Hafenstrass 2 