Virus Name:  Bad Boy 
 Aliases:     Bad Boy 2 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovery:   May, 1991 
 Symptoms:    .EXE file growth; decrease in system and available free 
              memory; system hangs 
 Origin:      Europe 
 Eff Length:  1,000 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRtCK - Parasitic Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, Sweep, NAV, ChAV, 
                    IBMAV, AVTK, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, AVTK/N, NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Bad Boy virus was received in May, 1991, from Europe.  Bad Boy 
       is a memory resident infector of .COM programs, it will infect 
       COMMAND.COM. 
 
       The first time a program infected with Bad Boy is executed, the 
       virus will install itself memory resident at the top of system 
       memory, but below the 640K DOS boundary.  Interrupt 21 will be 
       hooked by the virus.  Interrupt 12 return is not moved.  If the 
       virus became memory resident by booting from a disk with an infected 
       COMMAND.COM, total system memory and available free memory as 
       indicated by the DOS CHKDSK program will have decreased by 3,072 
       bytes.  If Bad Boy became memory resident by executing some other 
       infected program (not COMMAND.COM), then the decrease of 3,072 bytes 
       of total system memory will occur, but available free memory will 
       have decreased by 6,704 bytes.  The additional bytes from available 
       free memory is due to a low system memory TSR installed by the 
       virus. 
 
       After Bad Boy is resident, the virus will infect .COM files, 
       including COMMAND.COM, when they are executed.  Infected .COM files 
       will increase in length by 1,000 bytes with the virus being located 
       at the beginning of infected files.  Occasionally, infected programs 
       will increase in length by 1,001 bytes.  The file date and time in 
       the disk directory will not be altered. 
 
       Infected programs will contain two text strings, the first of which 
       will be encrypted in replicated, natural infections of the virus. 
       These text strings are not displayed by the virus: 
 
               "The bad boy halt your system ..." 
               "The Bad Boy virus, Copyright (C) 1991." 
 
       The Bad Boy virus activates on a random basis, at which time it will 
       appear to hang the system.  The hang is then followed by the virus 
       scrolling several screens of repeated characters, and then a system 
       halt occurs. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Bad Boy are: 
       Bad Boy 2: A later version of Bad Boy, Bad Boy 2 does not have 
                  the TSR installed if the virus became memory from other 
                  than booting from a disk with an infected COMMAND.COM. 
                  The system hang, screen scrolling of characters, and 
                  system halt may still occur, but not as frequently. 
                  The text strings in the virus have been changed to: 
                  "Make me better!" 
                  "The Bad Boy virus, Version 2.0, Copyright (C) 1991." 
                  As with Bad Boy, the first text string is encrypted in 
                  replicated samples of Bad Boy 2. 
       Bad Boy-D: Received in November, 1993, Bad Boy-D is a memory 
                  resident infector of .COM programs, but not COMMAND.COM. 
                  It installs itself memory resident at the top of system 
                  memory but below the 640K DOS boundary in 3,072 bytes of 
                  memory.  Interrupt 21 will be hooked.  Bad Boy-D infects 
                  .COM files when they are executed.  Infected files will 
                  increase in size by either 1,073 or 1,074 bytes.  The 
                  virus will be at the beginning of the file.  The program's 
                  date and time in the DOS disk directory listing will not 
                  be altered.  The following text string is visible within 
                  the viral code in all infected files: 
                  "The Worthless Piece of shit vi-rus that is a joke" 
                  Origin:  Unknown  November, 1993. 
       Bad Boy.1000.C: Received in January, 1996, Bad Boy.1000.C is a 
                  memory resident infector of .COM programs, including 
                  COMMAND.COM.  It installs itself memory resident at the 
                  top of system memory but below the 640K DOS boundary in 
                  3,072 bytes of memory, hooking interrupt 21.  This variant 
                  infects .COM files when they are executed, adding 1,000 
                  bytes to the file's length.  The virus will be at the 
                  beginning of the file.  The program's date and time in the 
                  DOS disk directory listing will not be altered.  The 
                  following text string is visible within the viral code in 
                  all infected files: 
                  "1994 Satan Virus By [Mad Satan] Ver 4.0" 
                  Origin:  Unknown  January, 1996. 
       Bad Boy.1000.D: Also received in January, 1996, this is a minor 
                  variant of Bad Boy.1000.C.  The text string has been 
                  changed to: 
                  "1994 Stan Virus By [ Mad Satan ] in TAIWAN. Ver 4.01" 
                  Origin:  Unknown  January, 1996. 
       Immortal Riot: Received in August, 1993, Immortal Riot is a 
                  memory resident infector of .COM programs, including 
                  COMMAND.COM.  It installs itself memory resident at the 
                  top of system memory but below the 640K DOS boundary in 
                  3,072 bytes of memory.  Interrupt 21 will be hooked. 
                  Immortal Riot infects .COM files when they are executed. 
                  Infected files will increase in size by either 1,054 or 
                  1,055 bytes, or may have the first 1,054 bytes overwritten 
                  by the viral code.  The virus will be at the beginning of 
                  the file.  The program's date and time in the DOS disk 
                  directory listing will not be altered.  The following 
                  text strings are visible within the viral code in all 
                  infected files: 
                  "Senseless Destruction..." 
                  "Protecting what we are joining together to take 
                   on the world.." 
                  "METAL MiLiTiA [iMM0RTAL RI0T] SVW" 
                  The first text string above will occassionally be 
                  displayed as a message on the system monitor.  At this 
                  time a system hang may occur. 
                  Origin:  Unknown  August, 1993. 
       Immortal Riot.B: Received in January, 1995, Immortal Riot.B is 
                  based on the Immortal Riot variant.  The only significant 
                  difference is that infected files always increase in size 
                  by 1,054 bytes.  The same text strings found in Immortal 
                  Riot can be found in this variant. 
                  Origin:  Unknown  January, 1995. 
 
       See:   Boys 