Virus Name:  Bloody! 
 Aliases:     Beijing, June 4th 
 V Status:    Common 
 Discovery:   December, 1990 
 Symptoms:    Extended boot time; decrease in system & available memory; 
              message on boot; boot sector & master boot sector changes 
 Origin:      Taiwan 
 Eff Length:  N/A 
 Type Code:   BRtX - Resident Boot Sector & Master Boot Sector Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, NAV, Sweep, AVTK, IBMAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV 
 Removal Instructions:  See below 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Bloody! virus was submitted in December 1990, and infection 
       reports were received from Europe, Taiwan, and the United States. 
       This virus is a memory resident infector of floppy diskette boot 
       sectors as well as the hard disk master boot sector (partition 
       table). 
 
       When a system is booted from a floppy or hard disk infected with the 
       Bloody! virus, the virus will install itself memory resident at the 
       top of system memory but below the 640K DOS boundary.  Total system 
       memory and available free memory will decrease by 2,048 bytes.  The 
       interrupt 12 return will be moved.  The system boot will also take 
       much longer than expected.  The system's hard disk's master boot 
       sector will become infected immediately if it was not the source of 
       the system boot. 
 
       At the time of system boot, the virus also maintains a counter of 
       how many times the infected diskette or hard drive has been booted. 
       Once 128 boots have occurred, the virus will display the following 
       message during the boot: 
 
               "Bloody! Jun. 4, 1989" 
 
       June 4, 1989 is the date of the confrontation in Beijing, China 
       between Chinese students and the Chinese Army in which many students 
       were killed. 
 
       This message will later be displayed on every sixth boot once the 
       128 boot limit has been reached.  The text message is encrypted 
       within the viral code, so it is not visible in the boot sector. 
 
       Once Bloody! is memory resident, the virus will infect any diskette 
       or hard disk when a file or program is accessed.  Listing a disk 
       directory will not be enough to cause the virus to infect the disk. 
 
       Infected diskette boot sectors will be missing all of the normal DOS 
       error messages which are normally found in the boot sector.  The 
       original boot sector will have been moved to sector 11 on 360K 
       diskettes, a part of the root directory.  If there were previously 
       root directory entries in that sector, those files will be lost. 
 
       On the hard disk, the original master boot sector will have been 
       moved to side 0, cylinder 0, sector 6. 
 
       For floppies of other sizes then 360K, they may become unusable or 
       corrupted as the virus does not take into account the existence of 
       these disk types. 
 
       For diskettes, Bloody! can be removed by powering the system off and 
       then booting from a known clean, write-protected original DOS 
       diskette. The DOS SYS command should then be executed on each of the 
       infected diskettes. 
 
       To remove the Bloody! virus from the hard disk's master boot sector, 
       the original master boot sector should be located and then copied 
       back to its original position.  The other option is to backup the 
       files on the hard disk and low level format the drive.  In the case 
       of DOS 5.0, the master boot sector can be rebuilt by using the DOS 
       FDISK program with the undocumented /MBR option. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Bloody! are: 
       Bloody!-B: Submitted in May, 1992, this variant is functionally 
                equivalent to the original virus.  It has been altered to 
                avoid detection by most anti-viral utilities. 
                Origin:  Unknown  May, 1992. 