Virus Name:  Cannabis 
 Aliases:     Cannabis 2, Cannabis 3 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovery:   October, 1991 
 Symptoms:    BSC; decrease in total system and available free memory; 
              directory corruption; message 
 Origin:      The Netherlands 
 Eff Length:  N/A 
 Type Code:   BRh - Resident Floppy Boot Sector Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, AVTK, F-Prot, Sweep, IBMAV, 
                    NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, AVTK/N, LProt, NAV/N, Innoc 
 Removal Instructions:  DOS Sys on system diskettes 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Cannabis virus was submitted from the Netherlands in October, 
       1991.  Cannabis is a memory resident infector of floppy diskette 
       boot sectors.  The current submission of this virus does not 
       infect hard disks. 
 
       When the system is booted from a diskette infected with Cannabis, 
       the boot will usually result in a message indicating that the 
       disk is a non-system diskette, and to replace it with a system 
       disk and press any key.  Replacing the diskette, or removing it 
       and allowing the boot to proceed from the system hard disk, will 
       result in the boot completing.  At this point, Cannabis will be 
       memory resident at the top of system memory but below the 640K 
       DOS boundary.  Total system and available free memory, as 
       measured with the DOS CHKDSK program, will be 2,048 bytes less 
       than expected. 
 
       Once Cannabis is memory resident, it will infect any non-write 
       protected diskette exposed to the system.  Infected 360K diskettes 
       will have the original boot sector moved to sector 9, and then 
       the Cannabis viral code written to sector 0, the location of the 
       original boot sector.  Since sector 9 is normally part of the 
       root directory, directory corruption may result on infected 
       diskettes. 
 
       Cannabis is a very buggy virus, and it will reinfect diskettes 
       previously infected with itself.  As a result, the original boot 
       sector which was relocated to sector 9 will be overwritten by the 
       viral code when a reinfection occurs. 
 
       The Cannabis virus will occasionally display the following message 
       when the system is booted from an infected diskette: 
 
               "Hey man, I don't wanna work. 
                I'm too stoned right now..." 
 
       Infected boot sectors will contain this text, along with the word 
       "Cannabis". 
 
       Known variant(s) of Cannabis are: 
       Cannabis Dropper: A very small .COM file which contained the 
                         Cannabis virus described above.  This file does 
                         nothing but infect a diskette's boot sector with 
                         the Cannabis virus. 
       Cannabis 2: Cannabis 2 is a variant of the Cannabis virus which 
                   has the bug fixed which prevented system boot on 
                   Cannabis infected diskettes.  It contains one text 
                   string: "CANNABIS".  This string will appear where the 
                   DOS version number is normally located in the boot 
                   sector.  It uses 1,024 bytes of memory, rather than the 
                   2,048 bytes required for the original virus.  Cannabis 2 
                   is a very poor replicator, and not likely to become a 
                   widespread problem. 
                   Origin:  The Netherlands  November, 1991. 
       Cannabis 2 Dropper: A very small .COM file which contained the 
                           Cannabis 2 virus described above.  This file 
                           does nothing but infect a diskette's boot 
                           sector with the Cannabis 2 virus. 
                           Origin:  The Netherlands  November, 1991. 
       Cannabis 3: Cannabis 3 is a minor variant of the Cannabis 3 
                   virus.  Like Cannabis 2, it contains the one text 
                   string: "CANNABIS". 
                   Origin:  The Netherlands  June, 1992. 
       Cannabis 3 Dropper: A very small .COM file which contained the 
                           Cannabis 3 virus described above.  This file 
                           does nothing but infect a diskette's boot 
                           sector with the Cannabis 3 virus. 
                           Origin:  The Netherlands  June, 1992. 