Virus Name:  Casino 
 Aliases:     Casino-B, Casino-C 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovery:   April, 1991 
 Symptoms:    .COM growth; decrease in total system & available free memory; 
              file allocation errors; slot machine game; file allocation 
              table damaged 
 Origin:      Malta 
 Eff Length:  2,332 - 2,346 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRhCK - Parasitic Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, AVTK, F-Prot, Sweep, NAV, 
                    IBMAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Casino virus was submitted in April, 1991 by David Chess of IBM. 
       Casino was first isolated in Malta.  This virus is a memory resident 
       infector of .COM files, including COMMAND.COM. 
 
       The first time a program infected with Casino is executed, Casino 
       will install itself memory resident at the top of system memory. 
       Total system and available free memory, as indicated by the DOS 
       CHKDSK program will decrease by 37,568 to 37,632 bytes.  3,152 bytes 
       in low system memory will also be used by the virus, and interrupts 
       00, 23, and 30 will point to this area.  After Casino is resident, 
       it will then immediately infect COMMAND.COM located in the C: drive 
       root directory. 
 
       After Casino is memory resident, it will infect .COM programs when 
       any of three events occur.  If the system user issues a DIR command, 
       or a program does an internal DIR command, one .COM file in the 
       current directory will be infected.  Additionally, if the system 
       user executes an infected program, a .COM program will become 
       infected.  Lastly, Casino will infect .COM programs that are opened 
       by another program for any reason. 
 
       Programs infected with Casino will have a file length increase of 
       2,332 to 2,346 bytes.  The file length increase, however, is mostly 
       hidden if the virus is memory resident.  With the virus memory 
       resident, infected files will have a file length increase of 1 to 16 
       bytes, but occasionally one may show a file length increase of up to 
       48 bytes.  The virus does not alter the file date and time in the 
       disk directory. 
 
       If Casino is memory resident and the DOS CHKDSK program is executed, 
       file allocation errors will be returned for each infected program. 
       If the CHKDSK/F option is used, program corruption will occur. 
 
       Casino activates on January 15, April 15, and August 15, when it 
       will play a slot machine game with the system user, with the 
       following message being displayed: 
 
                       "DISK DESTROYER . A SOUVENIR OF MALTA 
                   
                    I have just DESTROYED the FAT on your Disk!! 
           However, I have a copy in RAM, and I`m giving you a last chance 
                            to restore your precious data.                  
          WARNING: IF YOU RESET NOW, ALL YOUR DATA WILL BE LOST - FOREVER!! 
                        Your Data depends on a game of JACKPOT 
 
                                CASINO DE MALTE JACKPOT" 
 
       If the system user looses the game, Casino will trash the 
       file allocation table. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Casino are: 
       Casino-B: Similar to the original Casino virus, the major 
                 change with this variant is that it will trash the 
                 file allocation table before playing the slot machine 
                 game with the system user.  Only interrupt 21 is hooked 
                 by the virus in memory. 
       Casino-C: Similar to Casino-B, the major change with this variant 
                 is that it does not trash the file allocation table before 
                 playing the slot machine game, and it is possible for the 
                 system user to win, avoiding disk corruption.  If the 
                 system user wins the game, the following message will be 
                 displayed: 
             "BASTARD ! You're lucky this time - but for your own sake now 
              SWITCH OFF YOUR COMPUTER AND DON`TURN IT ON TILL TOMORROW!!!" 
                 A system hang then occurs. 
                 Origin:  Unknown  May, 1992. 