Virus Name:  Creeper  
 Aliases:     Creeping Tormentor 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovery:   February, 1992 
 Symptoms:    .COM file growth; decrease in total system and available free 
              memory 
 Origin:      Unknown 
 Eff Length:  475 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRhCK - Parasitic Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, AVTK, F-Prot, Sweep, NAV, IBMAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Creeper, or Creeping Tormentor, virus was received in February, 
       1992.  Its origin is unknown.  Creeper is a memory resident infector 
       of .COM programs, including COMMAND.COM. 
 
       The first time a program infected with Creeper is executed, the 
       Creeper virus will install itself memory resident at the top of 
       system memory but below the 640K DOS boundary.  Interrupt 12's 
       return will not have been moved.  Total system and available free 
       memory, as indicated by the DOS CHKDSK program, will have decreased 
       by 1,024 bytes.  Interrupts 1C and 21 will be hooked by the virus. 
 
       Once the Creeper virus is memory resident, it will infect .COM 
       programs when they are executed.  If COMMAND.COM if executed, it 
       will become infected.  Creeper infected programs will have a file 
       length increase of 475 bytes with the virus being located at the 
       beginning of the infected program.  The file's date and time in 
       the DOS disk directory listing will not have been altered. 
 
       The Creeper virus looks for the Tormentor virus in memory, checking 
       for the text string "TORMENTOR". 
 
       It is unknown if Creeper does anything besides replicate. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Creeper are: 
       Creeper-B: Functionally equivalent to the original Creeper virus, 
                  this variant has one byte which has been altered. 
                  Origin:  Unknown  May, 1992. 