Virus Name:  Darth Vader 
 Aliases:     Darth-1, Darth-2, Darth-3, Darth-4, Darth-5 
 V Status:    Research 
 Discovery:   May, 1991 
 Symptoms:    .COM programs corruption 
 Origin:      Bulgaria 
 Eff Length:  200 - 345 Bytes 
 Type Code:   ORCK - Overwriting Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, AVTK, F-Prot, Sweep, NAV, 
                    IBMAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, NShld, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Darth Vader viruses were received in May, 1991 from Bulgaria. 
       Darth Vader is actually a family of four viruses which are very 
       similar.  All of these viruses are memory resident overwriting 
       viruses which only infect .COM programs when they are copied. 
 
       When a program infected with a Darth Vader virus is executed, 
       Darth Vader will install itself memory resident.  Latter, as .COM 
       programs are copied, the target .COM program may become infected. 
       Depending on the particular Darth Vader virus, the target program 
       may have either the beginning of the program overwritten, or an 
       area of hex 00 characters overwritten by the virus.  There will be 
       no increase in file size in the disk directory, and the program's 
       date and time will not be altered. 
 
       Darth Vader viruses do not perform any malicious damage, though 
       infected programs are usually damaged and will not execute 
       properly. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Dark Avenger are: 
       Darth-1: The first Darth Vader virus submitted, Darth-1 is 
                270 bytes in length.  It overwrites the first 270 bytes 
                of .COM files when they are copied with the virus 
                memory resident.  Darth-1 will not infect COMMAND.COM. 
                The following text string can be found in the first 270 
                bytes of infected programs: "COMMCOMDarth Vad". 
       Darth-2: Darth-2 is a 345 byte variant of Darth-1.  Unlike 
                Darth-1, it overwrites 345 bytes of hex 00 characters 
                in copied .COM programs.  Infected programs will contain 
                the text string: "COMDarth Vader".  Darth-2 and later 
                variants will infect COMMAND.COM. 
       Darth-3: Darth-3 is similar to Darth-2, but it is 255 bytes in 
                length.  When Darth-3 infects programs, it overwrites 255 
                bytes of hex 00 characters.  Infected programs will contain 
                the text string: "Darth Vader". 
       Darth-3B: Darth-3B is similar to Darth-3, and is a very minor 
                variant.  Like Darth-3, infected programs will contain 
                the text string: "Darth Vader". 
                Origin:  Unknown  January, 1994. 
       Darth-4: Darth-4 is a shorter version of Darth-4, it is 200 
                bytes in length and does not contain any text strings. 
       Darth-5: Darth-5 is very similar to Darth-4.  Like Darth-4, it 
                is 200 bytes in length and does not contain any text 
                strings.  Darth-5 only infects .COM files when they are 
                copied if the original file contained at least 200 
                bytes of hex 00 characters. 