Virus Name:  Define 
 Aliases:    
 V Status:    Viron 
 Discovered:  May, 1991 
 Symptoms:    Program corruption; file date/time change; boot failures 
 Origin:      Australia 
 Eff Length:  30 Bytes 
 Type Code:   ONAK - Overwriting Non-Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  F-Prot, Sweep, AVTK, ViruScan, ChAV, 
                    IBMAV, NAV, VAlert, NAVDX, PCScan, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, NAV/N, 
                    LProt, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Define virus was received in June, 1991.  Its source code was 
       distributed in a FidoNet echo in May, 1991. Define is a non-resident 
       direct action infector of .COM and .EXE programs, and may infect 
       COMMAND.COM. 
 
       When a program infected with Define is executed, Define will 
       infect the first program in the current directory with a copy of 
       itself by overwriting the first 30 bytes of the program.  If the 
       program was previously infected, it will simply overwrite the 
       previous infection.  Unless the first program in the current 
       directory is smaller than 30 bytes in length, there will be no 
       change in file length.  The first program in the current directory's 
       date and time in the disk directory will be updated to the system 
       date and time when infection occurred. 
 
       The Define virus will corrupt programs when it infects them since 
       it overwrites the first 30 bytes of the host program's code.  These 
       infected programs will no longer properly function once infected, 
       usually returning the user to the DOS prompt.  If COMMAND.COM 
       becomes infected, the system will fail to boot. 
 
       Define is based on the Mini-45 virus.  It does not do anything 
       besides replicate. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Define are: 
       Define-B: Functionally similar to the Define virus described 
                 above, this is a minor variant with several bytes which 
                 differ. 
                 Origin:  Unknown  July, 1992. 
       Define-256: Define-256 is a 256 byte version of the Define 
                   virus described above.  Much of the replicated code of 
                   this variant doesn't do anything, and the base viral 
                   code is very similar in the first 30 bytes of the virus. 
                   When a Define-256 infected program is executed, the 
                   virus will infect the first program in the current 
                   directory.  If this program was previously infected, 
                   it will overwrite the previous infection.  The file's 
                   date and time in the DOS disk directory will have been 
                   updated. 
                   Origin:  South Africa  January, 1992. 
 
       See:   Mini-45 