Virus Name:  Devil's Dance 
 Aliases:     Devil's Dance-B 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  December, 1989 
 Symptoms:    Message; .COM growth; FAT corruption; TSR 
 Origin:      Mexico 
 Eff Length:  941 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRsCKT - Parasitic Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, AVTK, NAV, F-Prot, Sweep, IBMAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  NAV, or delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Devil's Dance virus was first isolated in December, 1989, by Mao 
       Fragoso of Mexico City.  Devil's Dance is a memory resident infector 
       of .COM programs, including COMMAND.COM.  It can be very destructive. 
 
       The first time a program infected with Devil's Dance is executed, 
       Devil's Dance will become memory resident as a low system memory 
       TSR of 1.2K.  Interrupts 09 and 21 will be hooked by Devil's Dance 
       in memory.  Also at this time, Devil's Dance will infect all .COM 
       programs in the current directory.  If the program was previously 
       infected with Devil's Dance, it will be reinfected. 
 
       After Devil's Dance is memory resident, it will infect any program 
       the user attempts to execute.  Programs infected with Devil's Dance 
       will increase in size by 941 bytes, with each later reinfection 
       resulting in an additional 941 byte increase.  The virus is located 
       at the end of infected files.  Infected programs will also have had 
       their file date and time updated in the DOS disk directory. 
 
       Once an infected program has been run, any subsequent warm-reboot 
       (CTL-ALT-DEL) may result in the following message being displayed: 
 
    "Have you ever danced with the devil under the week light of the moon?" 
                             PRAY FOR YOUR DISKS!!" 
                 
       The Devil's Dance virus is destructive.  After the first 2,000 
       keystrokes, the virus starts changing the colors of any text 
       displayed on the system monitor.  The changing of colors of displayed 
       text will also sometimes start to occur immediately with this virus. 
 
       After the first 5,000 keystrokes, the virus erases the first copy 
       of the FAT.  At this point, when the system is rebooted, it will 
       display the message above and again destroy the first copy of the 
       FAT, then allow the boot to proceed. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Devil's Dance are: 
       Devil's Dance-B: Similar to the original Devil's Dance virus, 
                        this variant is also 941 bytes in length.  The 
                        major difference is that infected systems will 
                        run very slowly, including at boot.  On system 
                        boot, the user may receive the message: 
                        "Specified COMMAND search directory bad". 