 Virus Name:  Ear 
 Aliases:    
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  May, 1992 
 Symptoms:    .COM & .EXE file growth; errors writing to device AUX; 
              Ear quiz played with the system user 
 Origin:      United States 
 Eff Length:  1,024 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PNAK - Parasitic Non-Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, Sweep, AVTK, IBMAV, 
                    NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, NProt, AVTK/N, NAV/N, IBMAV/N, LProt 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Ear virus was discovered in the United States in May, 1992. 
       It is a non-resident, direct action infector of .COM and .EXE 
       programs, including COMMAND.COM. 
 
       When a program infected with the Ear virus is executed, the Ear 
       virus will check to determine if more than two subdirectories 
       exist on the current drive.  If there are not at least two 
       subdirectories, the virus will attempt to write to device AUX, 
       and will normally result in an error.  No programs will be infected. 
       If two subdirectories exist, then the virus will infect all of the 
       .COM and .EXE programs located in the current directory, and the 
       program the user was attempting to execute will then run. 
 
       Programs infected with the Ear virus will have a file length increase 
       of 1,024 bytes with the virus being located at the end of the 
       infected file.  The program's date and time in the DOS disk directory 
       listing will not be altered. 
 
       The Ear virus will occassionally provide the user with a quiz on a 
       part of the human ear when an infected program is executed.  The 
       messages displayed at this time are: 
 
               "PHALCON/SKISM 1992 [Ear-6] Alert! 
                Where is the $ located? 
 
                1. External Ear 
                2. Middle Ear 
                3. Inner Ear" 
 
       The "$" above in the second line will be replaced with one of the 
       following: "Auditory Canal", "Lobe", "Hammer", "Eustacian Tube", 
       "Auditory Nerve", or "Cochlea".  If the user replies correctly, 
       the virus will display: 
 
               "Wow, you know your ears! Please resume work." 
 
       If the user replies incorrectly, the following is displayed: 
 
               "You obviously no nothing about ears. 
                Try again after some study." 
 
       The above text strings are encrypted within the virus and are not 
       visible in infected files.  Additional text strings which are 
       encrypted within the virus are: 
 
               "[Ear-6] Dark Angel" 
               "*.EXE *.COM" 
               "????????COM" 
 
       Known variant(s) of Ear are: 
       Anti-Print: Based on the Ear virus, Anti-Print is a memory 
                resident infector of .EXE programs.  When the first Anti- 
                Print virus infected program is executed, the Anti-Print 
                virus will install itself memory resident at the top of 
                system memory but below the 640K DOS boundary.  Total 
                system and available free memory, as indicated by the DOS 
                CHKDSK program, will have decreased by 1,248 bytes. 
                Interrupt 21 will be hooked.  Once resident, Anti-Print 
                infects .EXE programs when they are executed.  Infected 
                programs will have a file length increase of 593 bytes with 
                the virus being located at the end of the file.  The file's 
                date and time in the DOS disk directory listing will have 
                been updated to the current system date and time when 
                infection occurred.  The following text strings are 
                encrypted within the Anti-Print viral code: 
                "PRINT.EXE detected in memory!" 
                "=> Anti-PRINT Virus detonation <=" 
                When the Anti-Print virus is memory resident, it will trash 
                the current drive if PRINT.EXE is executed, along with 
                displaying the above text as a message.  System hangs may 
                also frequently occur. 
                Origin:  Unknown  February, 1993. 
       Quake-O: Based on the Ear virus, Quake-O infects up to three 
                .EXE or .COM programs in the current directory each time 
                an infected program is executed.  Infected programs will 
                have a file length increase of 960 bytes with the virus 
                being located at the end of the file.  There will be no 
                change to the program's date and time in the DOS disk 
                directory listing.  The following text strings are 
                encrypted within the Quake-O viral code: 
                "[Quake-O]" 
                "By Dark Angel of PHALCON/SKISM '92" 
                "Assistance by Demogorgon on Quake-O routines" 
                "Albeit" 
                ".. *.exe *.com" 
                Origin:  United States  August, 1992. 
       Suicide: Based on the Ear virus, Suicide infects up to five 
                .EXE or .COM programs in the current directory each time 
                an infected program is executed.  Infected programs will 
                have a file length increase of 2,048 bytes with the virus 
                being located at the end of the file.  There will be no 
                change to the program's date and time in the DOS disk 
                directory listing.  The following text strings are 
                encrypted within the Suicide viral code: 
                "*.COM *.EXE .. [Suicide]" 
                "Written by Dark Angel of PHALCON/SKISM" 
                "Ross M. Greenberg blows goats." 
                "Your PC has been infected by the Suicide virus." 
                "I would disinfect myself, but I despise DOS 2.X" 
                "Upgrade now!" 
                "Brought to you by PHALCON/SKISM" 
                "I will now kill myself.  Press D to    disinfect" 
                "PHALCON" 
                "SKISM" 
                "Hard at work to make your life" 
                "living hell" 
                Origin:  United States  July, 1992. 