Virus Name:  Globe 
 Aliases:    
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  August, 1992 
 Symptoms:    Read-Only, Hidden .COM files; system hangs         
 Origin:      Unknown 
 Eff Length:  6,610 Bytes 
 Type Code:   SNE - Spawning Non-Resident .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  F-Prot, ViruScan, AVTK, Sweep, NAV, IBMAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, AVTK/N, NAV/N, NProt, IBMAV/N, Innoc, 
                    LProt 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Globe virus was received in August, 1992.  It is a non-resident 
       spawning or companion virus which infects .EXE programs.  Its origin 
       is unknown. 
 
       When a program infected with the Globe virus is executed, the Globe 
       virus will infect one .EXE program in the current directory.  It 
       infects .EXE programs by creating a .COM program with the same 
       base file name.  This .COM file will contain the viral code, and 
       be 6,610 bytes with the Read-Only and Hidden attributes set.  It 
       contains the following text strings: 
 
               "Glo" 
               "Virus 3 M.00" 
               "PATH" 
               "EXEKCO" 
 
       It also contains strings from Borland's Turbo C compiler. 
 
       Systems infected with the Globe virus may experience system hangs 
       when infected programs are executed. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Globe are: 
       Globe 3.0 Received in November, 1993, Globe 3.0 is a non- 
                  resident, direct action infector of .COM and .EXE 
                  programs, but not COMMAND.COM.  It infects one .COM 
                  or .EXE program in the current directory each time 
                  an infected program is executed.  Infected programs will 
                  have a file length increase of 5,150 bytes with the virus 
                  being located at the beginning of the file.  The program's 
                  date and time in the DOS disk directory listing will not be 
                  altered.  The following text strings are visible within the 
                  viral code in all infected programs: 
                  ".EXE" 
                  "COM" 
                  "MAND" 
                  "HELLO!!" 
                  "GlobeViru" 
                  "V3.00" 
                  Systems infected with Globe 3.0 may experience available 
                  free memory decreasing by approximately 5K of RAM each 
                  time an infected program is executed. 
                  Origin:  Unknown  November, 1993. 