Virus Name:  Highlander 
 Aliases:     Highlander.477 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  October, 1992 
 Symptoms:    .COM file growth; TSR 
 Origin:      United States 
 Eff Length:  477 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRsC - Parasitic Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  Sweep, ViruScan, AVTK, F-Prot, IBMAV, 
                    NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, LProt, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, IBMAV/N, 
                    NAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Highlander virus was submitted in October, 1992.  It is 
       originally from the United States, and is by the same author as 
       the Geek virus.  Highlander is a memory resident infector of .COM 
       programs, but not COMMAND.COM. 
 
       When the first Highlander infected program is executed, the 
       Highlander virus will become memory resident as a low system 
       memory TSR of 1,280 bytes.  It hooks interrupts 21 and 22. 
 
       Once memory resident, the Highlander virus will infect .COM 
       programs other than COMMAND.COM when they are executed.  Infected 
       programs will have a file length increase of 477 bytes with the 
       virus being located at the beginning of the file.  The program's 
       date and time in the DOS disk directory listing will not be altered. 
       The following text strings are visible within the viral code in 
       all Highlander infected programs: 
 
               "COM" 
               "Highlander 1 RULES!" 
               "v05" 
 
       Highlander activates on the 29th day of any month, at which time 
       it will display the "Highlander 1 RULES!" message 21 times and 
       hang the system. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Highlander are: 
       Highlander.478: Received in July, 1995, this is a 478 byte 
           variant of the Highlander virus described above.  Its memory 
           resident TSR is 1,264 bytes, hooking interrupts 21 and 22. 
           It infects .COM files, but not COMMAND.COM, when they are 
           executed.  Infected files will have a file length increase of 
           478 bytes with the virus being located at the beginning of the 
           file.  The file's date and time in the DOS disk directory 
           listing will not appear to be altered, though the seconds field 
           will have been set to "40".  The following text strings are 
           visible within the viral code: 
           "COM" 
           "Highlander 1 RULES!" 
           Origin:  Unknown  July, 1995. 

=============================

;This is the HIGHLANDER Virus version 1.0.  

;This virus is a generic, parasitic, resident COM infector.  It will not
;infect command.com however.  It is not destructive but can be irritating.
;Interrupt 21 is hooked.

;This virus is to be assembled under TASM 2.0 with the /m2 switch.

;When an infected file is executed, the virus code is executed first.
;The virus first checks to see if the virus is already resident.  It does
;this by setting the AH register to 0DEh.  This subfunction is currently
;unsupported by DOS.  Interrupt 21 is then called.  If after the call, AH is 
;unchanged, the virus is not resident.  If AH no longer contains 0DEh, the
;virus is assumed to be resident (If the virus is resident, AH will actually
;be changed to 0EDh.  This is never checked for, only a change from 0DEh
;is checked for).  If the virus is already resident, the executing viral
;code will restore the host in memory to original condition and allow it
;to execute normally.  If however, the virus is not resident, Interrupt 21
;will then be trapped by the virus.  Once this is accomplished, the virus
;will free all available memory that it does not need (COM programs are
;allocated all available memory when they are executed even though they can
;only occupy one segment).  The viral code will then copy the original 
;environment and determine the path and filename of the host program in 
;memory.  The viral code will then shell out and re-execute the host 
;program.  The virus is nearly resident now.  When the virus shells out
;and re-executes the host, a non-supported value is passed in the AL
;register.  This is interpreted by the virus to mean that the infection
;is in transition and that when the host is re-executed, to assume that the
;virus is already resident.  This value is then changed to the proper value
;so that the shell process will execute normally (INT 21 is already trapped
;at this point).  This shell process is invisible, since the viral code
;so successfully copies the original environment.  Once the host has 
;finished executing, control is then returned back to the original host
;(the viral code).  The virus then completes execution by going resident
;using interrupt 027h.  In all appearances, the host program has just 
;completed normal execution and has terminated.  In actuality, the virus
;is now fully resident.

;When the virus is resident, interrupt 021h is trapped and monitored.
;When a program is executed, the resident virus gets control (DOS executes
;programs by shelling from DOS using interrupt 021h, subfunction 04bh).
;When the virus sees that a program is being executed, a series of checks
;are performed.  The first thing checked for is whether or not the program
;to be executed has 'D' as the seventh letter in the filename.  If it does
;the program is not infected and is allowed to execute normally (this is
;how the virus keeps from infecting COMMAND.COM.  No COM file with a 'D'
;as the seventh letter will be infected).  If there is no 'D' as the seventh
;letter, the virus then checks to see if the program to be executed is a
;COM file or not.  If it is not a COM file, it is not infected and allowed
;to execute normally.  If the COM file test is passed, the file size is then
;checked.  Files are only infected if they are larger than 1024 bytes and
;smaller than 62000 bytes.  If the file size is within bounds, the file
;is checked to see if it is already infected.  Files are only infected
;a single time.  The virus determines infection by checking the date/time
;stamp of the file.  If the seconds portion of the stamp is equal to 40,
;the file is assumed to be infected.  If the file is infected, the virus
;then checks the date.  If it is the 29th day of any month, the virus will
;then display its irritating qualities by displaying the message 
;'Highlander 1 RULES!' 21 times and then locking the machine and forcing
;a reboot.  If the file is not infected, infection will proceed.  The 
;virus stores the original attributes and then changes the attributes to
;normal, read/write.  The file length is also stored.  The file is then
;opened and the first part of the file is read and stored in memory (the
;exact number of bytes is the same length as the virus).  The virus then
;proceeds to overwrite the first part of the file with its own code.  The 
;file pointer is then adjusted to the end of the file and a short 
;restoration routine is copied.  The original first part of the file is 
;then copied to the end of the file after the restore routine.  The files
;time/date stamp is then adjusted to show an infection (the seconds portion
;of the time is set to 40.  This will normally never be noticed since 
;directory listings never show the seconds portion).  The file is then
;closed and the original attributes are restored.  Control is then passed
;to the original INT 021h routine and the now infected program is allowed
;to execute normally.

;This virus will infect read-only files.
;COMMAND.COM will not be infected.
;It is not destructive but can be highly irritating.