Virus Name:  Keeper 
 Aliases:     Keeper.Acid, Acid Trip 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  February, 1994 
 Symptoms:    .EXE growth; .COM files may appear to decrease in size; 
              decrease in total system & available free memory 
 Origin:      North America 
 Eff Length:  694 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRhE - Parasitic Resident .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, AVTK, IBMAV, Sweep, NAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, NProt, AVTK/N, Sweep/N, IBMAV/N, NAV/N, Innoc 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Keeper, Keeper.Acid or Acid Trip, virus was received in 
       February, 1994 and is from North America.  Keeper is a memory 
       resident infector of .EXE programs. 
 
       When the first Keeper infected program is executed, this virus 
       will install itself memory resident at the top of system memory 
       but below the 640K DOS boundary, hooking interrupt 21.  Total 
       system and available free memory, as indicated by the DOS CHKDSK 
       program, will have decreased by 1,264 bytes.  Interrupt 12's 
       return will not be moved. 
 
       Once the Keeper virus is memory resident, it will infect .EXE 
       programs when they are executed.  Infected programs will have a 
       file length increase of 694 bytes, though the file length increase 
       will be hidden by the virus when it is memory resident.  The virus 
       will be located at the end of all infected programs.  The file's 
       date and time in the DOS disk directory listing will not be altered. 
       The following text strings are visible within the viral code in all 
       Keeper infected programs: 
 
               "Crypt Keeper P/SG" 
               "Your PC is on an [Acid Trip]... Try again later..." 
 
       When the Keeper virus is memory resident, the DOS disk directory 
       listing may indicate that .COM programs are 694 bytes smaller than 
       expected.  This effect occurs due to the size stealthing mechanism 
       employed by the virus.            
 
       See:  Enemy Within   Lemming   Massacre 