 Virus Name:  Kode4 
 Aliases:     Kode4-399 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  September, 1992 
 Symptoms:    .COM file growth; programs fail to execute properly; message 
 Origin:      North America 
 Eff Length:  399 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PNCK - Parasitic Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  AVTK, F-Prot, Sweep, IBMAV, NAV, PCScan, 
                    ViruScan, NAVDX, VAlert, ChAV, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, LProt, NAV/N, 
                    IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Kode4 virus was submitted in September, 1992, and appears to be 
       from North America.  Kode4 is a non-resident direct action infector 
       of .COM programs, including COMMAND.COM. 
 
       When a program infected with the Kode4 virus is executed, the Kode4 
       virus will infect all of the .COM programs located in the current 
       directory.  Once it completes infecting the programs, it displays 
       the following message and returns the user to the DOS prompt: 
 
               "-=+ Kode4 +=-, The one and ONLY!" 
 
       Programs infected with the Kode4 virus will have a file length 
       increase of 399 bytes with the virus being located at the end of 
       the file.  Kode4 cannot tell when a program was previously infected 
       by the virus, so it will reinfect files adding additional increments 
       of 399 bytes.  The program's date and time in the DOS disk directory 
       will not be altered.  Besides the above text string, one other 
       text string can be found in all infected programs: 
 
               "*.com" 
 
       Kode4 doesn't appear to do anything besides replicate, though 
       infected programs will not function properly. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Kode4 are: 
       Kode4-B: Based on the Kode4 virus described above, Kode4-B is 
                a very minor variant, having five altered bytes. 
                Origin:  Unknown  May, 1993. 
       Kode4-129: Received in November, 1992, Kode4-129 appears to be 
                  an earlier variant of the Kode4 virus described above. 
                  This variant is a non-resident, direct action overwriting 
                  virus which infects all .COM programs in the current 
                  directory when an infected program is executed.  Infected 
                  programs will have the first 129 bytes of the program 
                  overwritten by the viral code.  The following message will 
                  also be displayed when an infected program is executed: 
                  "-=+ Kode4 +=-, The one and ONLY!" 
                  In addition to this message, the following text string 
                  can be found within the viral code: 
                  "*.c*" 
                  Programs infected with Kode4-129 may increase in size, 
                  even though this is an overwriting virus.  When this 
                  occurs, the infected file will contain the viral code at 
                  the beginning of the file, and the remainder of the file 
                  will contain data from system memory. 
                  Origin:  Unknown  November, 1992. 
       Kode4.281: Received in May, 1995, Kode4.281 is a 281 byte variant 
                  of the Kode4 virus described above. This variant is a 
                  non-resident, direct action parasitic virus which infects 
                  all .COM programs in the current directory when an 
                  infected program is executed.  Infected programs will have 
                  a file length increase of 281 bytes with the virus being 
                  located at the end of the file.  The program's date and 
                  time in the DOS disk directory listing will not be altered. 
                  The following string is visible within the viral code in 
                  all infected files: 
                  "*.com  -=+ Kode4 +=-, The one and ONLY!" 
                  Origin:  Unknown  May, 1995. 