Virus Name:  Leprosy 
 Aliases:     Leprosy 1.00, News Flash 
 V Status:    Viron 
 Discovered:  August, 1990 
 Symptoms:    Unusual messages; program corruption 
 Origin:      California, United States 
 Eff Length:  666 Bytes 
 Type Code:   ONAK - Overwriting Non-Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, AVTK, F-Prot, Sweep, IBMAV, 
                    NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, NAV/N, 
                    IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Leprosy virus was discovered in the San Francisco Bay Area of 
       California on August 1, 1990.  This virus is a non-resident 
       overwriting virus infecting .COM and .EXE files, including 
       COMMAND.COM.  Its original carrier file is suspected to be a file 
       called 486COMP.ZIP which was uploaded to several BBSes. 
 
       When you execute a program infected with the Leprosy virus, the 
       virus will overwrite the first 666 bytes of all .COM and .EXE files 
       in the directory one level up from the current directory.  If the 
       current directory is the root directory, all programs in the root 
       directory will be infected.  If COMMAND.COM is located in the 
       directory being infected, it will also be overwritten.  Infected 
       files will show no file length increase unless they were originally 
       less than 666 bytes in length, in which case their length will 
       become 666 bytes. 
 
       After the virus has infected the .COM and .EXE files, it will 
       display a message.  The message will be either: 
 
               "Program to big to fit in memory" 
 
       or: 
 
               "NEWS FLASH!!  Your system has been infected with the 
                incurable decay of LEPROSY 1.00, a virus invented by 
                PCM2 in June of 1990.  Good luck!" 
 
       The second message will only be displayed by one out of every seven 
       .COM and .EXE files that the program infects. 
 
       Since Leprosy is an overwriting virus, the programs which are 
       infected with it will not function properly.  In fact, once they 
       are infected with this virus they will run for awhile (while the 
       virus is infecting other files) and then display one of the two 
       messages.  The program execution will then end. 
 
       If the system is booted from a diskette or hard drive that has 
       Leprosy in its COMMAND.COM file, one of the above two messages will 
       be displayed followed by: 
 
               "Bad or missing Command Interpreter" 
 
       This boot problem occurs because COMMAND.COM is no longer really 
       COMMAND.COM.  The boot will not proceed until a system boot 
       diskette is inserted into the system and another boot is attempted. 
 
       While Leprosy's messages are encrypted in the virus, infected files 
       can be found by checking for the following hex string near the 
       beginning of the file: 
 
               740AE8510046FE06F002EB08 
 
       Infected files must be deleted and replaced with clean, uninfected 
       copies.  There is no way to disinfect this virus since the first 
       666 bytes of the file have been overwritten, the virus does not 
       store those bytes anywhere else. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Leprosy are: 
       Angel Of Death: The Angel Of Death is a non-resident direct 
                 action infector of .COM and .EXE programs, including 
                 COMMAND.COM.  It infects up to four programs in the 
                 current directory each time an infected program is 
                 executed.  It infects all .EXE programs in a directory 
                 before it will start infecting .COM programs.  Infected 
                 programs will have the first 555 bytes overwritten by the 
                 viral code.  Programs infected with Angel Of Death will 
                 not function properly, usually returning the user to the 
                 DOS prompt after much disk activity.  The following text 
                 is encrypted within the viral code: 
                 "All those of impure race beware 
                  because for the greater glory of 
                  the Aryan Race, the Angel of Death 
                  Doctor JOSEF MENGELE has returned!" 
                 "*.EXE *.COM" 
                 Origin:  Unknown  October, 1992. 
       Leprosy-654: Leprosy-654 is a non-resident, direct action 
                 overwriting virus based on the Leprosy virus.  It infects 
                 four .EXE files in the current directory whenever an 
                 infected program is executed, and then displays the 
                 following message: 
                 "Memory allocation error" 
                 Leprosy-654 overwrites the first 654 bytes of the .EXE 
                 programs it infects, permanently corrupting them.  The 
                 following text string is unencrypted within the viral 
                 code in Leprosy-654 infected programs: 
                 ".. *.EXE *.COM COMMAND.COM" 
                 Origin:  Unknown  March, 1993. 
       Leprosy-664A: Leprosy-664A, or Betrayal, is a non-resident direct 
                 action overwriting virus based on the Leprosy virus.  It 
                 infects four .EXE or .COM files in the current directory 
                 whenever an infected program is executed, and then displays 
                 the following message: 
                 "Program too big to fit in memory" 
                 Leprosy-664A overwrites the first 664 bytes of the programs 
                 it infects, permanently corrupting them.  The following text 
                 strings are unencrypted within the viral code in all 
                 Leprosy-664A infected programs: 
                 "*.EXE *.COM .." 
                 "Program too big to fit in memory" 
                 "Betrayal is a sin, if it comes from another.." 
                 "The Unforgiven / Immortal Riot  Dedicated to Ellie! - 
                  Lurve you!  Sweden 15/09/93" 
                 Once all of the .EXE and .COM programs in the current 
                 directory are infected, the virus will display the following 
                 message in the place of the "Program too big" message 
                 whenever an infected program is executed: 
                 "Betrayal is a sin, if it comes from another.." 
                 Leprosy-664A activates on the 10th day of any month, at 
                 which time it can trash the system hard disk. 
                 Origin:  Sweden  February, 1994. 
       Leprosy-5600: Leprosy-5600 is a non-resident, overwriting virus 
                 based on the Leprosy-B virus.  It infects up to four .EXE 
                 or .COM programs in the current directory when an infected 
                 program is executed, overwriting the first 5,600 bytes. 
                 The infected file's date and time in the DOS disk directory 
                 listing will not be altered.  Leprosy-5600 cannot recognize 
                 previously infected programs, so the first four programs 
                 which the virus has infected in a directory will be 
                 reinfected over and over again.  Infected programs will not 
                 function properly, and will usually result in the display 
                 of the message: 
                 "Not enough memory" 
                 This message can be found within the viral code, as can 
                 the following text string: 
                 "*.EXE *.COM .." 
                 Origin:  Unknown  December, 1992. 
       Leprosy-B: The major differences between the Leprosy and Leprosy-B 
                  virus are that Leprosy-B uses a slightly different 
                  encryption method, thus allowing it to avoid detection 
                  once Leprosy was isolated.  Additionally, instead of 
                  infecting all programs in the directory selected for 
                  infection, Leprosy-B will infect four programs in the 
                  current directory each time an infected program is 
                  executed.  If four non-infected files do not exist in 
                  the current directory, it will move up one level in the 
                  directory structure and infect up to four files in that 
                  directory.  Like Leprosy, it overwrites the first 666 
                  bytes of infected files.  The Leprosy message has been 
                  replaced with the following message: 
                  "ATTENTION!  Your computer has been afflicted with 
                   the incurable decay that is the fate wrought by 
                   Leprosy Strain B, a virus employing Cybernetic 
                   Mutation Technology (tm) and invented by PCM2  08/90." 
       Leprosy-C: Leprosy-C is based on the Leprosy-B variant, and 
                  has been altered to avoid detection by anti-viral products 
                  familiar with the Leprosy virus at the time of its 
                  isolation.  Leprosy-C overwrites up to three .EXE programs 
                  in the current directory each time an infected program 
                  is executed.  If it cannot find three candidate files to 
                  infect in the current directory, it will move upward in 
                  the directory structure.  Infected programs will have the 
                  first 320 bytes overwritten with the viral code.  The 
                  file's date and time will not be altered.  Programs 
                  infected with Leprosy-C will fail to execute properly, 
                  either resulting in an access to the system hard disk, 
                  the program exiting with no message being displayed, or 
                  a "Program too big to fit into memory" message occurring. 
                  Origin:  United States  May, 1991. 
       Leprosy-D: Similar to Leprosy-C, Leprosy-D's major difference is 
                  that it will infect .COM and .EXE programs, including 
                  COMMAND.COM.  Leprosy-D overwrites the first 370 bytes 
                  of infected programs. 
                  Origin:  United States  May, 1991. 
       Leprosy-FVHS: Leprosy-FVHS is a non-resident, overwriting virus 
                 based on the Leprosy-B virus.  It infects up to four .EXE 
                 or .COM programs in the current directory when an infected 
                 program is executed, overwriting the first 2,218 bytes. 
                 The infected file's date and time in the DOS disk directory 
                 listing will not be altered.  Leprosy-FVHS displays the 
                 following message when an infected program is executed: 
                 "Allocating memory....  Please wait..... 
                  Hard time accessing memory, please turn off all RAM 
                  resident programs and press >>Enter<< to continue...." 
                 The above message can be found within the viral code in 
                 all infected programs, as can the following additional 
                 text strings: 
                 "Copyright(C) 1992 by Fairview High School, 
                  Boulder Colorado, 80303." 
                 "Person/People/Things we >>hate<<: 
                  Paul Harvey's sucks!!!!! MacinTrashes Suck!!!!" 
                 "Graham (Not Alexander but this fuck ass kids whjo calls 
                  himself graham) sucks!" 
                 "Person/People we admire:Lynn Bari, Jean Arthur, Jane 
                  Russel, Victoria Hill" 
                 "Person/People/Things we thing are cool:  Cybernetics, 
                  C++, 39 Steps, The Mafia, maybe "Monty Python". XX" 
                 ".. *.EXE *.COM" 
                 Origin:  United States  December, 1992. 
       Leprosy.Wannabe: A minor variant of the Leprosy virus, this 
                 variant infects up to four .EXE or .COM files when an 
                 infected program is executed, overwriting the first 666 
                 bytes of the host program.  The following text strings are 
                 encrypted within the viral code: 
                 "*.exe *.com .." 
                 "File allocation error." 
                 "The Roger-1 Virus has made you sick!" 
                 "BReW CReW BaBY!!!" 
                 "[WaNNaBe]!" 
                 "Boom-squash on ya Ken! Tis 435!!" 
                 Origin:  Unknown  December, 1994. 
       NightCrawler 3.0: The NightCrawler 3.0 virus is a non-resident 
                 direct action infector of .EXE programs.  It infects all 
                 of the .EXE programs in the current directory when an 
                 infected program is executed.  Infected programs will have 
                 the first 562 bytes overwritten by the viral code. 
                 Programs infected with Silver Surfer will not function 
                 properly, and the following message is usually displayed 
                 when an infected program is executed: 
                 "Program too big to fit in memory" 
                 In addition to the above text, the following text is 
                 encrypted within the viral code: 
                 "*.EXE *.COM .." 
                 "*------------------------------*" 
                 "    NIGHTCRAWLER VERSION 3.0" 
                 "      (C) SECTOR INFECTOR" 
                 "*------------------------------*" 
                 Origin:  Unknown  June, 1993. 
       RMIT: Based on the Leprosy-B virus, RMIT infects both .COM and 
             .EXE programs, including COMMAND.COM.  It infects up to four 
             programs each time an infected program is executed, with 
             preference for .EXE programs.  Infected programs will have the 
             first 666 bytes overwritten by the RMIT viral code.  RMIT 
             infected programs will contain the text string "V3" in the 
             first two bytes.  The other text string which can be found in 
             all infected programs is "*.EXE *.COM".  Infected programs 
             will fail to execute properly, and may result in the message 
             "Program too big to fit in memory" being displayed. 
             Origin:  Unknown  June, 1991. 
       Scribble: Received from Sweden in June, 1992, Scribble is based 
                 on the Leprosy virus, but has been altered to avoid 
                 detection by anti-viral products familiar with the 
                 Leprosy virus.  Scribble overwrites up to three programs 
                 in the current directory each time an infected program 
                 is executed.  It will infect .EXE programs before .COM 
                 programs.  Infected programs will have the first 595 
                 bytes overwritten with the viral code.  The file's date 
                 and time will not be altered.  After all of the programs 
                 in the current directory have become infected, execution 
                 of the next infected program will result in the following 
                 message being displayed: 
                 "Legalize Graffitipainting! 
                  Scribble 1.00 (c) 1992   VIRINC" 
                 A system hang will then occur.  The above messages are 
                 encrypted within the virus and not visible in infected 
                 files. 
                 Origin:  Sweden  June, 1992. 
       Silver Surfer: The Silver Surfer is a non-resident direct 
                 action infector of .COM and .EXE programs, including 
                 COMMAND.COM.  It infects up to five programs in the 
                 current directory each time an infected program is 
                 executed.  It infects all .EXE programs in a directory 
                 before it will start infecting .COM programs.  Infected 
                 programs will have the first 946 bytes overwritten by the 
                 viral code.  Programs infected with Silver Surfer will 
                 not function properly, usually returning the user to the 
                 DOS prompt after much disk activity.  The following text 
                 is encrypted within the viral code: 
                 "*.EXE *.COM .." 
                 "Error in Executable" 
                 "I've never been able to ascertain its exact nature, 
                  but I'm certain of its" 
                 "symptoms - dementia, paranoia, shizophrenia, 
                  hallucinations.  The end result" 
                 "is always death... The virus lives to reproduce - 
                  it seems to have no other" 
                 "purpose... Once infected, the organism's central 
                  nervois system suffers a" 
                 "complete breakdown, leading to death." 
                 "-- Silver Surfer #61" 
                 "The Silver Surfer Virus - Lep-B variant - by" 
                 The "Error in Executable" text string may be displayed as 
                 a message when some infected programs are executed. 
                 Origin:  Unknown  November, 1992. 
       The Plague: The Plague is a non-resident direct action infector 
                 of .COM and .EXE programs, including COMMAND.COM.  It 
                 infects up to three programs in the current directory each 
                 time an infected program is executed.  Infected programs 
                 will have the first 591 bytes overwritten by the viral 
                 code.  Programs infected with The Plague will not function 
                 properly.  For .EXE files, the following message will 
                 usually be displayed upon program execution: 
                 "Program too big to fit in memory" 
                 The Plague activates when an infected program is executed 
                 and it cannot find an uninfected program to infect, though 
                 there is some randomness to whether or not activation will 
                 actually occur.  When this virus activates, the following 
                 message is displayed: 
                 "Autopsy indicates the cause of 
                  death was THE PLAGUE 
                  Dedicated to the dudes at SHHS 
                  VIVE LE SHE-MAN!" 
                 While this message is being displayed, the current drive 
                 will be overwritten with garbage characters, rendering 
                 it unrecoverable. 
                 Origin:  Houston, Texas, Unites States  January, 1991. 
       Xabaras: Xabaras is a non-resident, overwriting virus based on 
                the Leprosy-B virus.  It infects up to four .EXE programs 
                in the current directory when an infected program is 
                executed, overwriting the first 1,972 bytes.  The resultant 
                infected .EXE files will usually not infect other programs, 
                and execution of them usually results in a system hang or 
                other unexpected results.  The following text strings are 
                encrypted within the Xabaras virus, and cannot be seen 
                in infected files: 
                "*.EXE" 
                "Xabaras...the name of the devil!!" 
                "*.COM .. Access denied" 
                "Your PC has been infected by XABARAS VIRUS" 
                "Created by Cracker Jack 1991  (c) IVRL" 
                Origin:  Italy  August, 1992. 
 
       See:   Silver Dollar 