Virus Name:  Lisbon 
 Aliases: 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  November, 1989 
 Symptoms:    .COM growth; unusable files (see text) 
 Origin:      Lisbon, Portugal 
 Eff Length:  648 bytes 
 Type Code:   PNCK - Parasitic Non-Resident COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, AVTK, NAV, Sweep, IBMAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  F-Prot, NAV, or delete infected files 
 General Comments: 
       The Lisbon virus is a strain of the Vienna virus first isolated by 
       Jean Luz in Portugal in November, 1989.  The virus is very similar 
       to Vienna, except that the virus has been altered in order to avoid 
       virus identification/detection programs which could identify the 
       Vienna virus. 
 
       When a program infected with Lisbon is executed, the virus will 
       infect or corrupt one .COM file in the current directory.  If a 
       program is infected, 648 bytes will be added to the programs length 
       with the virus being located at the end of the program.  These 
       programs will have the text strings below near the end of the 
       infected program: 
 
               "@AIDS" 
               "????????COM" 
 
       If a program was corrupted instead of being infected, the first 
       five characters of the program will be "@AIDS".  These corrupted 
       programs will no longer execute properly, usually resulting in a 
       system hang when they are executed.  Corrupted files will not have 
       any file length increase since the first five characters were 
       overwritten by the "@AIDS" string. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Lisbon are: 
       Lisbon-B: Similar to Lisbon, this variant does not contain the 
                 "@AIDS" string.  It also may hang the system when it 
                 attempts to infect .COM files.  Programs corrupted by 
                 this variant will be begin with the hex string 
                 "FEB8140C50", and programs infected with the actual 
                 Lisbon-B variant will end with this string. 
       Lisbon-B2: Lisbon-B2 is a very minor variant of Lisbon-B, differing 
                  by 2 bytes.  Otherwise, it is functionally identical. 
 
       See:   Vienna 