Virus Name:  Mayak 
 Aliases:     Jews2 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  April, 1992 
 Symptoms:    .COM, .SYS, & .EXE file growth; system slowdown; TSR; 
              system hangs 
 Origin:      Unknown 
 Eff Length:  2,339 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRsAK - Parasitic Resident .COM, .EXE, & .SYS Infector 
 Detection Method:  AVTK, ViruScan, IBMAV, F-Prot, NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, 
                    PCScan, ChAV, 
                    Sweep/N, Innoc, AVTK/N, IBMAV/N, NShld, NAV/N, LProt 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Mayak virus was submitted in April, 1992.  Its origin or point 
       of isolation is unknown.  Mayak is a memory resident infector of 
       .COM, .EXE, and .SYS programs.  It employs stealth techniques to 
       avoid detection. 
 
       When the first Mayak infected .COM or .EXE program is executed, 
       the Mayak virus will check .SYS files referenced in the C: drive's 
       CONFIG.SYS file, and infect these .SYS files if they have not 
       been previously infected.  After it completes infecting these 
       files, it will not be memory resident, and will not infect other 
       programs at this time. 
 
       The next time the system is booted from the C: drive, the Mayak 
       virus will become memory resident from the infected .SYS programs 
       referenced in the C: drive CONFIG.SYS file.  The virus will have 
       installed itself memory resident in the Config area of memory, 
       allocating approximately 2,464 bytes.  Interrupt 21 will be hooked 
       by Mayak. 
 
       Once the Mayak virus is memory resident, it will infect .COM and 
       .EXE programs as they are opened or executed.  Infected programs 
       will have a file length increase of 2,339 bytes with the virus 
       being located at the end of the infected file.  The file length 
       increase, however, will not be visible when Mayak is memory 
       resident. 
 
       The following text strings can be found in the viral code in all 
       Mayak infected programs: 
 
               "Jews-2 Virus. MSU 1991" 
               "c:\config.sys device" 
               ".com.exe.bin.sys" 
 
       Users of systems infected with the Mayak virus may notice that 
       their system is running slower, and that some programs will hang 
       the system when they are executed. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Mayak are: 
       Mayak-2370: Mayak-2370 is a 2,370 byte variant of the Mayak 
                   or Jews2 virus described above.  Its size in memory 
                   is approximately 2,720 bytes, hooking interrupt 21. 
                   It infects programs when they are executed, adding 
                   2,370 bytes to their length.  Systems infected with 
                   Mayak-2370 may experience "Sector not found" errors 
                   when accessing the system disk drives, "Error in exe 
                   file" errors when attempting to execute infected 
                   programs, and system hangs when some infected programs 
                   are executed. 
                   Origin:  Unknown  July, 1992. 