Virus Name:  Mindless 
 Aliases: 
 V Status:    Viron 
 Discovered:  November, 1992 
 Symptoms:    .COM files overwritten; program corruption; hard disk 
              corruption; data file corruption 
 Origin:      United States 
 Eff Length:  423 Bytes Overwriting 
 Type Code:   ONCK - Overwriting Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  AVTK, ViruScan, F-Prot, IBMAV, Sweep, 
                    NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, AVTK/N, LProt, NProt, IBMAV/N, Innoc, 
                    NAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Mindless virus was submitted in November, 1992.  It is originally 
       from the United States.  The Mindless virus is a non-resident 
       overwriting virus which infects .COM programs, including COMMAND.COM. 
 
       When a program infected with the Mindless virus is executed, the 
       Mindless virus will infect all of the .COM programs in the current 
       directory.  Infected programs will have the first 423 bytes of the 
       host program overwritten with the viral code.  The file will not 
       increase in size unless it was originally smaller than 423 bytes, 
       in which case it will become 423 bytes in size.  The file's date 
       and time in the DOS disk directory listing will not be altered.  The 
       following text string is visible within the viral code in Mindless 
       infected programs: 
 
               "*.c*" 
 
       On Sundays, the Mindless virus activates when an infected program 
       is executed.  At this time, it will trash the current drive and the 
       C: drive, overwriting the boot sectors and the beginning of the 
       drive.  The following text strings can be found in the boot sectors 
       on the trashed drives: 
 
               "[Youngsters Against McAffee] -NATAS KAUPAS" 
               "The Mindless Virus v1.0" 
 
       This text is encrypted within the viral code so it is not visible 
       in infected programs. 
 
       The Mindless virus will also corrupt data files which have a file 
       extension starting with "C", infecting them as though they were 
       .COM programs. 
 
  