Virus Name:  Mini-45 
 Aliases:     Dust, Minimal, Short-45, Mini-35, Mini-44, Mini-46, Mini-97, 
              Mini-99, Mini, Trivial 
 V Status:    Viron 
 Discovered:  April, 1991 
 Symptoms:    .COM file corruption; file date/time changes 
 Origin:      Bulgaria 
 Eff Length:  45 Bytes 
 Type Code:   ONCK - Overwriting Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  AVTK, F-Prot, ViruScan, Sweep, PCScan, 
                    IBMAV, NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, ChAV, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, LProt, IBMAV/N, 
                    NAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Mini-45 virus was received in April, 1991.  It is originally 
       from Bulgaria.  This virus is a non-resident, overwriting virus 
       which infects .COM files, including COMMAND.COM. 
 
       When a program infected with Mini-45 is executed, the virus will 
       infect all .COM programs in the current directory by overwriting 
       the first 45 bytes of the program with the viral code.  No file 
       size increase will be noticed, unless the original program was less 
       than 45 bytes in length, in which case it will now be 45 bytes in 
       length. The .COM programs' date and time in the disk directory will 
       be updated to the current system date and time of infection. 
 
       All .COM programs infected with Mini-45 will fail to function 
       properly after infection.  These programs will be permanently 
       damaged since the first 45 bytes are lost. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Mini-45 are: 
       Dust: Dust is a 50 byte variant of the original Mini-45 virus. 
             It overwrites the first 50 bytes of all .COM programs in 
             the current directory when an infected program is executed. 
             The program's date and time in the DOS disk directory listing 
             will have been updated to the current system date and time 
             when infection occurred. 
             Origin:  Unknown  August, 1992. 
       Mini-35: Mini-35 is a 35 byte variant of the original Mini-45 
                virus.  Mini-35 will overwrite the first 35 bytes of the 
                first .COM program in the current directory when an 
                infected program is executed.  The program's date and time 
                in the DOS disk directory listing will also have been 
                updated. 
                Origin:  Unknown  January, 1992. 
       Mini-44: Mini-44 is a 44 byte variant of the original Mini-45 
                virus.  It will overwrite the first 44 bytes of all .COM 
                programs located in the current directory when an infected 
                program is executed.  The file's date and time in the DOS 
                disk directory listing will have been updated to the 
                current system date/time. 
                Origin:  Unknown  January, 1992. 
       Mini-46: Mini-46 is a 46 byte variant of the original Mini-45 
                virus.  Other than the difference in length, the virus 
                functions similarly to the Mini-45 virus. 
       Mini-97: Mini-97 is a larger variant of the Mini-45 virus.  This 
                particular virus was the smallest known parasitic virus at 
                the time of its submission in October, 1991.  Mini-97 
                infects all .COM files in the current directory which do not 
                start with a JMP (E9h) instruction, including COMMAND.COM, 
                when an infected program is executed.  Infected programs 
                increase in size by 97 bytes with the virus being located at 
                the beginning of the infected file.  The file's date and time 
                in the DOS disk directory listing will also have been altered. 
                Origin:  The Netherlands  October, 1991. 
       Mini-99: Probably an earlier variant of Mini-97, this variant 
                infects all .COM files in the current directory, including 
                COMMAND.COM, when an infected program is executed. 
                Infected programs increase in size by 99 bytes, and will 
                have had their file date and time in the DOS disk 
                directory updated to the current system date and time 
                when infection occurred.  The virus will be located at 
                the end of infected files. 
                Origin:  The Netherlands  October, 1991. 
 
       See:   Banana   Blood Lust   Define   Dutch Tiny 