Virus Name:  Overwriting 
 Aliases:     OW-Trident, OW-64 
 V Status:    Viron 
 Discovered:  October, 1992 
 Symptoms:    .COM files overwritten; file date/time changes; programs fail 
              to function properly 
 Origin:      Unknown 
 Eff Length:  64 Bytes 
 Type Code:   ONCK - Overwriting Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, AVTK, F-Prot, Sweep, IBMAV, 
                    NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, NProt, AVTK/N, IBMAV/N, NAV/N, LProt, 
                    Innoc 4.0+ 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Overwriting, OW-Trident, or OW-64, virus was submitted in 
       October, 1992.  The submission was actually of four related viruses. 
       The OW-Trident variant is described below, with the other three 
       variants described under known variants at the end of this entry. 
 
       When a program infected with the OW-Trident virus is executed, this 
       virus will infect all .COM programs in the current directory by 
       overwriting the first 64 bytes of the host files.  Infected programs 
       will have no change in the file length, unless the .COM program was 
       originally smaller than 64 bytes.  In the event that the host 
       program was originally smaller than 64 bytes in length, it will now 
       have a file length of 64 bytes.  The program's date and time in the 
       DOS disk directory listing will have been changed to the system date 
       and time when infection occurred.  The following text string is 
       visible in all infected programs: 
 
               "*.COM Trident" 
 
       Infected programs are permanently damaged, and will no longer 
       function properly. 
 
       Known variant(s) of the Overwriting virus are: 
       OW-37: A 37 byte variant of the OW-Trident virus described 
              above.  It overwrites the first five .COM programs in the 
              current directory when an infected program is executed. 
              The following text string can be found in all infected 
              programs: 
              "*.COM" 
              Origin:  Unknown  October, 1992. 
       OW-40: A 40 byte variant of the Overwriting virus described 
              above.  It overwrites the first 40 bytes of all of the 
              files in the current directory when an infected program 
              is executed.  No text strings are visible within the viral 
              code.  Both program and data files are corrupted by the 
              virus. 
              Origin:  Unknown  May, 1993. 
       OW-42: A 42 byte variant of the OW-Trident virus, this variant 
              overwrites the first 42 bytes of all .COM programs in the 
              current directory when an infected program is executed.  It 
              contains the following text string: 
              "*.COM" 
              Origin:  Unknown  October, 1992. 
       OW-42B: Functionally similar to OW-42, it is a minor variant. 
              Origin:  Unknown  October, 1992. 
       Small-46: A 46 byte non-resident direct action overwriting 
              virus, Small-46 infects one .COM file in the current directory 
              each time an infected program is executed.  Infected files 
              will have the first 46 bytes of the host program ovewritten 
              by the virus, and the file's date and time altered to the 
              current system date and time when infection occurred.  It 
              contains the following text string: 
              "*.COM" 
              Origin:  Unknown  January, 1993. 
       Small-72: A 72 byte non-resident direct action overwriting 
              virus, Small-72 infects all of the .COM files in the current 
              directory when an infected program is executed.  Infected 
              programs will have the first 72 bytes of the host program 
              overwritten by the virus, and the file's date and time in 
              the DOS disk directory listing updated to the current system 
              date and time when infection occurred.  It contains one 
              text string: 
              "*.COM" 
              Origin:  Unknown  January, 1993. 