Virus Name:  Parasite 
 Aliases: 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovery:   January, 1992 
 Symptoms:    .COM file growth; message & buzzing; warm reboots 
 Origin:      Canada 
 Eff Length:  1,132 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PNCK - Parasitic Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, Sweep, AVTK, ChAV, 
                    IBMAV, NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, NAV/N, IBMAV/N, 
                    LProt 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Parasite virus was received in January, 1992 from Canada. 
       Parasite is a non-resident, direct action infector of .COM 
       programs, including COMMAND.COM.  It is based on the Sicilian 
       Mob virus, and indirectly on the Vienna virus. 
 
       When a program infected with Parasite is executed, the Parasite 
       virus will search the current directory for the first uninfected 
       .COM file.  When it finds this uninfected .COM file, it will 
       then infect it. 
 
       Programs infected with the Parasite virus will have a file size 
       increase of 1,132 bytes.  The virus will be located at the end of 
       the infected file.  There will be no visible change to the file's 
       date and time in a DOS disk directory listing. 
 
       The following text strings are visible within the viral code in 
       Parasite infected programs: 
 
               "(C) 1991 by [NUKE] InterNat`nl Software Development" 
               "Parasite Virus, Released October 1991, Montreal, Canada" 
               "--> [NukE] H/A/P/C/T/V at its Best! <---" 
               "RABiT,RABiT,RABiT...EAT THIS!" 
               "To John McAfee [I'll be BACK!]" 
               "*.COM" 
               "PATH=" 
               "????????COM" 
 
       On approximately one out of every four infected program executions, 
       the Parasite virus will display the following message accompanied by 
       a loud buzzing on the system speaker: 
 
               "Parasite Virus! by Rock Steady [NukE] HP" 
 
       This message is not visible in infected programs as it is 
       encrypted. Once the message is displayed, the program the user was 
       attempting to execute will run. 
 
       Parasite will also occassionally cause a warm reboot of the system 
       when an infected program is executed. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Parasite are: 
       Parasite 2: Parasite 2 was received in February 1992, and is 
                   originally from Montreal, Canada.  It is a modified 
                   version of the original Parasite virus, with many of 
                   the text strings having been removed.  The text strings 
                   which remain are: 
                   "ParaSite II - By: Rock Steady" 
                   "*.COM COMMAND.COM" 
                   "PATH=" 
                   "????????COM" 
                   Each time a program infected with Parasite 2 is executed, 
                   the virus will infect one .COM file in the current 
                   directory, plus COMMAND.COM if it was not previously 
                   infected.  Programs infected with Parasite 2 will have a 
                   file length increase of 901 bytes with the virus being 
                   located at the end of the infected file.  There will be 
                   no change to the file's date and time in the DOS disk 
                   directory listing.  Systems infected with Parasite 2 
                   may experience a "machine gun" noise being emitted on the 
                   system speaker when infected programs are executed. 
                   System hangs and intermittent boot failures may also 
                   occur.  The virus contains code to overwrite the C: drive 
                   boot sector, directory, and FAT on Mondays, however this 
                   code does not function properly. 
                   Origin:  Montreal, Canada  February, 1992. 
       Parasite 2B: Similar to Parasite 2, the Parasite 2B variant is 
                   two bytes larger than Parasite 2.  It adds 903 bytes to 
                   the .COM files it infects.  The following text strings 
                   can be found in all infected files: 
                   "ParaSite IIB - By: Rock Steady" 
                   "*.COM COMMAND.COM" 
                   "PATH=" 
                   "????????COM" 
                   It contains the same bug as Parasite 2, preventing it 
                   from activating on Mondays and overwriting the hard disk. 
       Vengeance: Based on the Parasite virus, the Vengeance virus was 
                   discovered in the United States in late May, 1992.  It 
                   infects one .COM file each time an infected program is 
                   executed.  Infected programs will have a file length 
                   increase of 723 bytes with the virus being located at the 
                   end of the file.  The seconds in the file's time in the 
                   DOS disk directory will have been set to 56, the virus's 
                   infection marker.  Programs infected with Vengeance will 
                   contain the following text strings: 
                   "*** Vengeance is ours! ***" 
                   "SKISM/Phalcon '92" 
                   "PATH=*.COM" 
                   "????????COM" 
                   Origin:  United States  May, 1992. 
       Vengeance-B: Received in September, 1992, Vengeance-B is similar 
                   to Vengeance described above.  The seconds in the file's 
                   time in the DOS disk directory will be set to 00 
                   on all infected programs.  Programs infected with 
                   Vengeance-B will contain the following text strings: 
                   "PATH=*.COM" 
                   "????????COM" 
                   Origin:  Canada  September, 1992. 
       Vengeance-C: Received in October, 1992, Vengeance-C is similar 
                   to Vengeance described above, it has eight bytes which 
                   differ. 
                   Origin:  Canada  October, 1992. 
 
       See:   Sicilian Mob   Vienna 