Virus Name:  Phoenix 
 Aliases:     P1 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  July, 1990 
 Symptoms:    .COM growth; system reboots; CHKDSK program failure; 
              COMMAND.COM header change 
 Origin:      Bulgaria 
 Eff Length:  1,704 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRhCK - Parasitic Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, NAV, AVTK, F-Prot, Sweep, IBMAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Phoenix virus is of Bulgarian origin, and was submitted to the 
       author of this document in July, 1990 by Vesselin Bontchev. This 
       virus is one of a family of three (3) viruses which may be referred 
       to as the P1 or Phoenix Family.  Each of these viruses is being 
       documented separately due to their varying characteristics. The 
       Phoenix virus is a memory resident, generic infector of .COM files, 
       and will infect COMMAND.COM. 
 
       The first time a program infected with the Phoenix virus is 
       executed, the virus will install itself memory resident in free 
       high memory, reserving 8,192 bytes.  Interrupt 2A will be hooked by 
       the virus. System total memory and free memory will decrease by 
       8,192 bytes. If the program was executed from a floppy drive, and 
       COMMAND.COM was not present on the diskette, the virus will 
       request that a diskette with \COMMAND.COM present be inserted in 
       the drive.  Phoenix will immediately infect COMMAND.COM by 
       overwriting part of the binary zero portion of the program, and 
       changing the program's header information. COMMAND.COM will not 
       change in file length.  The virus will then similarly infect 
       COMMAND.COM residing in the C: drive root directory. 
 
       After becoming memory resident, the virus will attempt to infect 
       any .COM file executed.  Most of its attempts, however, will not 
       result in a file being infected.  Phoenix is a fairly poor 
       replicator.  If the virus is successful in infecting the file, it 
       will append its viral code to the end of the file, increasing the 
       file's length by 1,704 bytes. 
 
       Phoenix is not able to recognize when it has previously infected a 
       file, so it may reinfect .COM files several times.  Each infection 
       will result in another 1,704 bytes of viral code being appended to 
       the file. 
 
       Systems infected with the Phoenix virus will experience problems 
       with executing CHKDSK.COM.  Attempts to execute this program with 
       Phoenix memory resident will result in a warm reboot of the system 
       occurring, however the memory resident version of Phoenix will not 
       survive the reboot.  If an autoexec.bat file is not present on the 
       drive being booted from, the system will prompt for the user to 
       enter Date and Time. 
 
       The Phoenix virus employs a complex encryption mechanism, and virus 
       scanners which are only able to look for simple hex strings will 
       not be able to detect it.  There is no simple hex string in this 
       virus that is common to all infected samples. 
 
       This virus is not related to the Cascade (1701/1704) virus. 
 
       See:   Evil   Phoenix 2000   PhoenixD   Proud   V82 