Virus Name:  Plastique 
 Aliases:     Plastic Bomb, Plastique 3012, Plastique 1, Anticad 3 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  July, 1990 
 Symptoms:    TSR; .COM & .EXE growth; possible system slowdown or bomb 
              noises after September 20 
 Origin:      Taiwan 
 Eff Length:  3,012 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRsA - Parasitic Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, AVTK, F-Prot, NAV, Sweep, IBMAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected  files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Plastique, or Plastic Bomb, virus was submitted in July 1990, 
       it comes to us from Taiwan.  Plastique is a memory resident generic 
       infector of .COM and .EXE files, though it does not infect 
       COMMAND.COM.  Unlike the Plastique-B virus listed below, this 
       virus does not infect floppy disk boot sectors. 
 
       The first time a program infected with Plastique is executed, the 
       virus will install itself memory resident as a TSR in low system 
       memory.  The TSR is 3,264 bytes in length, and hooks interrupt 21. 
 
       After the virus is memory resident, it will attempt to infect any 
       .COM or .EXE file which is executed.  This virus is rather "buggy", 
       and it is not always successful in infecting files when they are 
       executed.  When it is successful infecting the file, the file's 
       length will increase.  For infected .COM files, the length will 
       increase by 3,012 bytes.  For infected .EXE files, their length 
       will increase between 3, 012 and 3,020 bytes. 
 
       Plastique will also attempt to infect files when they are opened 
       for any reason, though again, it is not always successful. 
 
       After September 20th of any year, the Plastique virus activates. 
       At that time, it will do either of two things.  It will either 
       progressively slowdown the system, or it will intermittently emit 
       "bomb" noises from the system speaker. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Plastique are: 
       HM2: The earliest known version of this virus, it does not 
            replicate.  Executing an infected file results in the system 
            hanging requiring a reboot. 
            Origin: Taiwan, May 1990. 
       Plastique 4.21: A variant of the Plastique virus described above, 
                       the only real difference is that the encryption of 
                       the virus is slightly different.  Otherwise it 
                       behaves exactly the same as Plastique. 
                       Origin: Taiwan, July 1990. 
       Plastique COBOL: A variant of the Plastique virus described above, 
                        this version is 3,004 bytes in length, and its 
                        memory resident TSR is 3,248 bytes in length.  The 
                        only text character string which can be found in 
                        this variant is "COBOL".  This string does not 
                        occur in other variants of the Plastique virus, or 
                        related viruses.  Infected .COM programs will 
                        increase in size by 3,004 bytes, .EXE files by 
                        3,004 to 3,019 bytes.  COMMAND.COM will not 
                        become infected.  Activation of the virus has also 
                        been altered.  Between January 1st and September 
                        21st, the virus will progressively slowdown the 
                        system.  After 20 minutes, the system will execute 
                        at approximately 50% of its original speed.  After 
                        30 minutes, the virus may lockout the system 
                        keyboard, as well as corrupt the system's CMOS 
                        configuration.  Between September 22nd and 
                        December 31st, the virus does not activate, and no 
                        system slowdown or CMOS corruption will occur. 
 
       See:   Invader   Plastique-B   Tobacco 