Virus Name:  Sad 
 Aliases:    
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovery:   July, 1992 
 Symptoms:    .COM file growth; system hangs; boot failures; message 
              displayed 
 Origin:      Unknown 
 Eff Length:  301 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PNCK - Parasitic Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  F-Prot, AVTK, Sweep, NAVDX, PCScan, 
                    ViruScan, IBMAV, NAV, VAlert, ChAV, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, LProt, NAV/N, 
                    IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Sad virus was received in July, 1992.  Its origin or point of 
       isolation is unknown.  Sad is a non-resident, direct action 
       infector of .COM programs, including COMMAND.COM. 
 
       When the first Sad virus infected program is executed, the Sad 
       virus will infect the first four .COM files in the current 
       directory if they were not previously infected.  Infected programs 
       will have a file length increase of 301 bytes with the virus being 
       located at the beginning of the infected file.  The program's date 
       and time in the DOS disk directory listing will not be altered. 
 
       The following text strings can be found within the viral code in 
       all Sad virus infected programs: 
 
               "Sad virus - 24/8/91" 
               "*?.com" 
 
       Systems infected with the Sad virus may experience frequent system 
       hangs, as well as boot failures once the boot copy of COMMAND.COM 
       becomes infected.  Additionally, execution of infected programs 
       in the month of September will result in the "Sad virus - 24/8/91" 
       message being displayed. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Sad are: 
       Sad-307: A 307 byte variant of the Sad virus, this variant 
                adds 307 bytes to the .COM programs it infects.  Like 
                the original virus, Sad-307's viral code will be located 
                at the end of the file, and the program's date and time 
                in the DOS disk directory listing will not be altered. 
                The text strings found in the original virus are also 
                found in this variant.  The major distinction with regards 
                to this variant is the virus' behavior in September. 
                Upon execution of an infected program during the month of 
                September, the virus will display its message and overwrite 
                the current drive, effectively trashing the disk. 
                Origin:  Unknown  September, 1992. 
 
       See:   Bljec 