Virus Name:  Shiny Happy 
 Aliases:    
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  April, 1993 
 Symptoms:    .COM & .EXE growth; file date/time seconds = "48"; 
              decrease in total system & available free memory; 
              :-) changed to :-( 
 Origin:      North America 
 Eff Length:  921 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRtAK - Parasitic Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  F-Prot, ViruScan, AVTK, Sweep, IBMAV, 
                    NAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, Sweep/N, AVTK/N, NProt, IBMAV/N, Innoc, NAV/N, 
                    LProt 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Shiny Happy virus was submitted in April, 1993, and appears to 
       be from North America.  Shiny Happy is a memory resident infector 
       of .COM and .EXE programs, including COMMAND.COM.  It employs some 
       stealth techniques to avoid detection. 
 
       When the first Shiny Happy infected program is executed, the Shiny 
       Happy virus will install itself memory resident at the top of system 
       memory but below the 640K DOS boundary, moving interrupt 12's return. 
       Total system and available free memory, as indicated by the DOS 
       CHKDSK program, will have decreased by 1,024 bytes.  Interrupts 01, 
       03, and 09 will be hooked by Shiny Happy in memory. 
 
       Once the Shiny Happy virus is memory resident, it will infect .COM 
       and .EXE programs when they are executed.  Infected programs will 
       have a file length increase of 921 bytes, though this file length 
       increase will be hidden when Shiny Happy is memory resident.  The 
       virus will be located at the end of all infected files.  The file's 
       date and time in the DOS disk directory listing will not appear to 
       be altered, but the seconds field will have been changed to "48". 
       The following text string can be found within the viral code in all 
       Shiny Happy infected programs: 
 
               "Shiny Happy Virus by Hellraiser and Dark Angel 
                of Phalcon/Skism" 
 
       When the Shiny Happy virus is memory resident, it will change the 
       character sequence ":-)" to ":-(" when it is typed on the system 
       keyboard. 