Virus Name:  Stealth Boot.C 
 Aliases:     Amse, Nops.B, Stelboo 
 V Status:    Common 
 Discovered:  January, 1995 
 Symptoms:    BSC; system hard disk master boot sector altered; 
              decrease in total system & available free memory; 
              drivers may fail to load into memory 
 Origin:      Unknown 
 Eff Length:  N/A 
 Type Code:   RhBX - Resident Boot Sector & MBR Infector 
 Detection Method:  Sweep, F-Prot, AVTK, IBMAV, ViruScan, NAVDX, VAlert, 
                    NAV, PCScan, ChAV 
 Removal Instructions:  DOS SYS on diskettes, F-Disk/MBR on hard disk 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Stealth Boot.C virus was received in January, 1995.  It is a 
       memory resident stealth boot virus which infects the system hard 
       disk master boot sector (partition table sector) and diskette 
       boot sectors.  It is in the public domain in North America. 
 
       When the system is booted for the first time from a Stealth Boot.C 
       infected diskette, this virus will install itself memory resident 
       at the top of system memory but below the 640K DOS boundary.  Total 
       system and available free memory, as indicated by the DOS CHKDSK 
       program, will have decreased by 4,096 bytes.  Also at this time, the 
       virus will infect the system hard disk master boot sector if it was 
       not previously infected. 
 
       Once the Stealth Boot.C virus is memory resident, it will infect 
       diskette boot sectors when non-write protected diskettes are accessed. 
       Infected diskettes will have the original boot sector moved to the 
       last sector on the diskette. 
 
       Systems infected with Stealth Boot.C may experience difficulty 
       loading some driver and memory management software into memory, 
       resulting in operational difficulties with programs which access 
       upper memory blocks, such as Windows.  It is reported to also cause 
       problems with 32-bit data access on some systems. 
 
       This virus is a full stealth virus, hiding the infection on the 
       system hard disk and diskette boot sectors when the virus is memory 
       resident.  Therefore, it is important to be sure that the virus is 
       not memory resident before attempting to scan possibly infected 
       systems and diskettes, as well as booting from a known uninfected 
       system diskette before any attempt to disinfect the virus. 