 Virus Name:  Tequila 
 Aliases:     Stealth 
 V Status:    Common 
 Discovered:  April, 1991 
 Symptoms:    .EXE growth; master boot sector modified; file allocation 
              errors; decrease in total system and available memory 
 Origin:      Switzerland 
 Eff Length:  2,468 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRtEX - Parasitic Resident .EXE & Master Boot Sector Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, Sweep, NAV, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    IBMAV, AVTK, NAVDX, VAlert, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, AVTK/N, NAV/N, 
                    NProt, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  F-Prot, or delete infected files and 
                        replace master boot sector 
 General Comments: 
       The Tequila virus was isolated in April, 1991.  It is originally 
       from Switzerland, and at the time of its isolation was thought to 
       be common in Europe.  Tequila is a memory resident master boot sector 
       (partition table) and .EXE file infector which uses a complex 
       encryption method and garbling to avoid disassembly and detection by 
       using a scan or search string. 
 
       The first time a program infected with Tequila is executed on a 
       system, the virus will check to see if it has already infected the 
       hard disk master boot sector.  If the master boot sector has not been 
       previously infected, Tequila will write an unencrypted copy of 
       itself to the last six sectors of the system hard disk, as well as 
       modify the hard disk master boot sector so that it will be 
       infectious.  Tequila will not install itself memory resident at 
       this time, and it will not infect programs. 
 
       Later, when the system is rebooted from the system hard disk, 
       Tequila will become memory resident.  It will be located at the top 
       of system memory but below the 640K DOS boundary.  Interrupt 12's 
       return will be moved, preventing the virus from being overwritten 
       in memory. Interrupts 13 and 21 will be hooked by the virus.  Total 
       system memory and available free memory, as indicated by the DOS 
       CHKDSK program, will be 3,072 bytes less than expected. 
 
       After Tequila is memory resident, it will infect .EXE programs when 
       they are executed.  Infected .EXE programs will increase in size by 
       2,468 bytes, but this increase will not be able to be seen in the 
       DOS disk directory if the virus is memory resident.  The virus will 
       be located at the end of infected programs.  The infected program's 
       date and time in the disk directory will not be altered. 
 
       The following text will be able to be found on the last few sectors 
       of the hard disk on infected systems.  This text is encrypted in 
       infected programs: 
 
               "Welcome to T.TEQUILA's latest production. 
                Contact T.TEQUILA/P.o.Box 543/6312 St'hausen 
                Switzerland. 
                Loving thought to L.I.N.D.A. 
                BEER and TEQUILA forever !" 
 
       Systems infected with Tequila will notice file allocation errors 
       being detected with the DOS CHKDSK command when the virus is memory 
       resident.  If CHKDSK is executed with the /F option, program 
       corruption may result. 
 
       Anti-viral programs which perform CRC checking may not be able to 
       detect Tequila on files, regardless of whether the virus is memory 
       resident. 
 
       Tequila activates four months after the initial date of infection 
       of the system hard disk.  At that time, and every month thereafter 
       on the anniversary date, the virus will display a graphic and the 
       following message: 
 
               "Execute: mov ax, FE03 / int 21. Key to go on!" 
 
       If the user executes a program containing this sequence of 
       instructions, the message which was found on the last sectors of 
       the system hard disk will be displayed. 