 Virus Name:  Tony 
 Aliases:    
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovery:   November, 1991 
 Symptoms:    .COM file growth 
 Origin:      Bulgaria 
 Eff Length:  200 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PNCK - Parasitic Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, AVTK, Sweep, F-Prot, ChAV, 
                    NAV, IBMAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, IBMAV/N, 
                    NAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Tony virus was submitted in November, 1991.  It comes to us from 
       Bulgaria.  Tony is a non-resident, direct action infector of .COM 
       files, including COMMAND.COM. 
 
       When a program infected with the Tony virus is executed, the virus 
       will check the day of the system date.  Depending on the day of the 
       month, the virus will determine which .COM files in the current 
       directory it will infect.  The algorithm is if the day = "1", then 
       files starting with "B" are infected.  On the 2nd, files starting 
       with "C" are infected.  This algorithm continues for the rest of the 
       days of the month.  Tony infects all .COM files in the current 
       directory which meet the selection criteria. 
 
       Tony infected programs will have a file length increase of 200 
       bytes.  The virus will be located at the beginning of the infected 
       file.  There will be no change in the file's date and time in a 
       DOS directory listing.  The following text string can be found 
       within the viral code in Tony infected programs: 
 
               "Tony+*.COM" 
 
       Tony does not do anything besides replicate. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Tony are: 
       Tony-203: Functionally similar to the Tony virus described 
                 above, this variant adds 203 bytes to the .COM programs 
                 it infects.  The text string found in the original virus 
                 also occurs in this variant. 
                 Origin:  Unknown  December, 1992. 