Virus Name:  V2100 
 Aliases:     2100, Stealth Virus, UScan Virus, Dark Avenger 4 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  July, 1990 
 Symptoms:    File allocation errors; decrease in system and free memory 
 Origin:      Bulgaria 
 Eff Length:  2,100 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PRtA - Parasitic Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, NAV, AVTK, F-Prot, Sweep, IBMAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  NAV, or delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The V2100, or 2100, virus was first isolated in Sofia, Bulgaria by 
       Vesselin Bontchev in July 1990.  It is a resident generic infector 
       of .COM, .EXE, and overlay files.  It will also infect COMMAND.COM. 
       This virus appears to have been originally released into the public 
       domain on an anti-viral program named UScan which was uploaded to a 
       BBS in Europe.  While not all copies of UScan are carriers of this 
       virus, there was one version which exists that has the virus 
       embedded in its program code.  The virus cannot be detected on this 
       Trojan version using search algorithms for this virus.  V2100 is 
       believed to have been written by the author of Dark Avenger. 
 
       The first time a program infected with V2100 is executed, the virus 
       will install itself memory resident above top of memory but below 
       the 640K boundary.  The top of memory returned by interrupt 12 will 
       be lower than expected by 4,288 bytes.  Likewise, free memory will 
       have decreased by 4,288 bytes.  At this same point, V2100 will 
       infect COMMAND.COM though the change in file length will be hidden 
       by the virus. 
 
       Once the virus is memory resident, it will infect any .COM, .EXE, 
       or overlay file with a file length of at least 2100 bytes that is 
       executed or opened for any reason.  The simple act of copying an 
       executable file will result in both the source and target files 
       becoming infected.  Infected files will be 2,100 bytes longer, 
       though the virus will hide the change in file length so that it 
       isn't noticeable when directories are listed.  In some cases, 
       infected files will appear to be 2,100 bytes smaller than expected 
       if the virus is present in memory. 
 
       Systems infected with the V2100 virus will notice file allocation 
       errors occurring, along with cross-linking of files.  Due to these 
       errors, some files may become corrupted.  These file allocation 
       errors are truly errors, they exist whether or not the virus is 
       present in memory. 
 
       A side note on the V2100 virus: if the system had previously been 
       infected with the Anthrax virus, V2100's introduction will result 
       in the Anthrax virus again being present in the hard disk master boot 
       sector (partition table).  This effect occurs because Anthrax stores 
       a copy of itself on the last sectors of the hard disk.  When V2100 
       becomes resident, it searches the last 16 cylinders of the hard disk 
       for a copy of Anthrax.  If V2100 finds the hidden copy of Anthrax, it 
       copies it into the hard disk's master boot sector.  On the next 
       system boot from the hard disk, Anthrax will once again be active on 
       the system. 