Virus Name:  Vacsina 
 Aliases: 
 V Status:    Common 
 Discovered:  November, 1989 
 Symptoms:    TSR; .COM, .EXE, .BIN, & .SYS growth; "beeps" 
 Origin:      Bulgaria 
 Eff Length:  1,206 bytes 
 Type Code:   PRsA - Parasitic Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, AVTK, NAV, Sweep, IBMAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  F-Prot, or delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Vacsina virus is approximately 1200 bytes in length and can be 
       found in memory on infected systems.  There are at least 48 
       variants of the Vacsina virus, also known as the TP virus family, 
       though not all of them have been isolated.  Later versions of this 
       virus are included in this listing under the name "Yankee Doodle". 
 
       Generally, the Vacsina virus infects both .COM and .EXE files, as 
       well as .SYS and .BIN files.  This virus, when infecting a .EXE 
       file, will first convert it into .COM format by changing the MZ or 
       ZM identifier in the first two bytes of the file to a JMP 
       instruction and then adding a small piece of relocator code, so 
       that the .EXE file can be infected as though it were originally a 
       .COM file. 
 
       One sign of a Vacsina infection is that programs which have been 
       infected may "beep" when executed.  Infected programs will also 
       have their date/time in the disk directory changed to the date and 
       time they were infected. 
 
       Known variant(s) of Vacsina are: 
       TP04VIR: Infects .EXE files, changing them internally into .COM 
                files.  Infected programs may beep when executed, and may 
                be identified by searching for the text string "VACSINA" 
                along with the second byte from the end of the file 
                containing a 04h.  This version of Vacsina is a poor 
                replicator, and while it will always convert a EXE file 
                to .COM file format, adding 132 bytes, it does not always 
                infect executed files. 
       TP05VIR: Similar to TP04VIR, except that the second to the last 
                byte in the file is now a 05h.  System hangs may also be 
                experienced. 
       TP06VIR: Similar to TP05VIR, except the second to the last byte in 
                the file is now a 06h. 
       TP16VIR: Similar to TP06VIR, the second to the last byte in the 
                infected file is now 10h. 
       TP23VIR: Similar to TP16VIR, the second to the last byte in the 
                infected file is now 17h.  The text "VACSINA" no longer 
                appears in the virus. 
       TP24VIR: Similar to TP23VIR, the second to the last byte in the 
                infected file is now 18h. 
       TP25VIR: Similar to TP24VIR, the second to the last byte in the 
                infected file is now 19h. 
 
       See:   Penza   Yankee Doodle 