Virus Name:  Victor 
 Aliases: 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  May, 1990 
 Symptoms:    .COM & .EXE growth; data file corruption; file linkage 
              errors; unexpected system reboots 
 Origin:      USSR 
 Eff Length:  2,443 - 2,458 bytes 
 Type Code:   PRAK - Parasitic Resident .COM & .EXE Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, F-Prot, NAV, AVTK, Sweep, IBMAV, 
                    NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, ChAV, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, 
                    NAV/N, IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  F-Prot, NAV, or delete infected files 
 General Comments: 
       The Victor virus was first isolated in May, 1990.  It is believed 
       to have originated in the USSR due to messages which appear within 
       the viral code: 
 
          "Victor V1.0 The Incredible High Performance Virus 
           Enhanced versions available soon. 
           This program was imported from USSR. 
           Thanks to Ivan." 
 
       The above message can be found at the end of infected files, but 
       does not appear to ever be displayed. 
 
       The first time a program infected with the Victor virus is 
       executed, the virus will install itself memory resident, occupying 
       3,072 bytes at the top of free memory.  Interrupt 21 will be 
       intercepted by the virus.  After becoming memory resident, Victor 
       will then seek out and infect COMMAND.COM. 
 
       Victor is a very slow file infector, only infected approximately 1 
       in every 10 programs executed after it becomes memory resident. 
       Infected programs will increase in length by between 2,443 and 
       2,458 bytes.  The increase in file size is not hidden by the virus. 
 
       Occasionally in the process of infecting a file, the virus will 
       hang the system, which may result in data file corruption. Overlay 
       files may also be infected, resulting in file linkage errors. 
 
       Victor activates on Wednesdays, at which time its memory resident TSR 
       will be 3,008 bytes in length.  When the first Victor infected 
       program is executed on a Wednesday, the virus will infect all .COM 
       and .EXE programs larger than approximately 2,500 bytes in length 
       immediately. 