Virus Name:  Violator B4 
 Aliases:     Christmas Violator, Violator Strain B4 
 V Status:    Rare 
 Discovered:  December, 1990 
 Isolated:    United States 
 Symptoms:    .COM growth on 8088 based system; hard disk corruption on 
              80286 & 80386 based systems 
 Origin:      Canada 
 Eff Length:  5,302 Bytes 
 Type Code:   PNCK - Parasitic Non-Resident .COM Infector 
 Detection Method:  ViruScan, AVTK, F-Prot, NAV, Sweep, ChAV, 
                    IBMAV, NAVDX, VAlert, PCScan, 
                    NShld, LProt, Sweep/N, Innoc, NProt, AVTK/N, NAV/N, 
                    IBMAV/N 
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files 
 
 General Comments: 
       The Violator B4 virus was isolated in December, 1990 in the United 
       States.  It is originally from Canada.  This virus was originally 
       released into the public domain on a Trojan version of DSZ 
       (DSZ1203).  It is a non-resident infector of .COM files, including 
       COMMAND.COM. 
 
       What Violator B4 does depends on what processor is in the personal 
       computer it is being executed on.  On 80286 and above processors, 
       the virus will activate immediately, overwriting the beginning 
       portion of the system hard disk.  It will also attempt to display a 
       Christmas greeting at that time, but the greeting display will be 
       garbled if ANSI.SYS is not loaded.  Damage caused by Violator B4 at 
       activation can be repaired using Norton Disk Doctor. 
 
       On an 8088 based system, Violator B4 will do nothing but replicate. 
       Each time an infected program is executed, the virus will infect 
       one other .COM program in the current directory.  Violator B4 
       infected files will have a file length increase of 5,302 bytes. 
       The file's date and time in the disk directory will not be 
       altered.  The virus will be located at the end of the infected file. 
 
       The following text message is contained within the Violator B4 
       virus, though it is never displayed: 
 
       "Violator Strain B4 - Written by RABID Nat'nl Development Corp. 
        RABID would like to take this opportunity to extend it's sincerest 
        holiday wishes to all Pir8 lamers around the world! If you are 
        reading this, then you are lame!!! 
        Anyway, to John McAffe! Have a Merry Christmas and a virus filled 
        new year. Go ahead! Make our day! 
        Remember! In the festive season, Say No to drugs!!! They suck shit! 
        (Bah! We make a virus this large, might as well have 
        something positive!)" 
 
       Known variant(s) of Violator B4 are: 
       Violator B4-1: Very similar to the original Violator B4 described 
                      above, this variant will overwrite track 1 of the 
                      system hard disk after it has completed two 
                      infections on a 386-based machine.  It contains the 
                      same text messages as the Violator B4 virus described 
                      above, and only differs by a few bytes. 
       Violator B4-B: This virus is the same as Violator B4-1, it differs 
                      by two bytes.  Its behavior is identical to Violator 
                      B4-1. 
 
       See:   Vienna   Violator 